This is the help page for the [quiz
extension](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/mw:Extension:Quiz "wikilink").
Also see [Quiz](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:v:Quiz "wikilink").

The quiz extension consists of very simple markup. This page is long
because of the many possibilities which the quiz extension opens up. For
a simpler and colourful guide to quizzes suitable for beginners, try the
[simple quiz help
page](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Quiz-简单 "wikilink").

## Overview

### Version

  - Version 1.0 of the quiz extension is now<sup>(20 May
    2007)</sup>active on Wikiversity.
  - This documentation covers all the major features and most of the
    minor ones.
  - A few exotic features are not yet covered, such as shuffle control
    using {X} {\!X} {/X} tags.

### Pedagogical considerations

  - Where are the strengths and weaknesses of Wikiversity quizzing?
  - How can you best use the quiz extension as a teaching tool?
  - [Wikiversity compared to
    Moodle](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:v:Help:Quiz/Wikiversity_compared_to_Moodle "wikilink")
    - offers a detailed consideration of the quiz feature differences
    between [Moodle](../Page/Moodle.md "wikilink") and
    [Wikiversity](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikiversity "wikilink"),
    including suggestions as to how each is best used.

## How to insert a quiz into your page

### The quiz tag

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>wikitext<br />
(what you write)</p></th>
<th><p>rendering<br />
(what you see)</p></th>
<th><p>comments</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><quiz><br />
<em>insert questions here</em><br />
</quiz></p></td>
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><quiz></p>
<p>{<em>This is where questions would appear.</em>}</p>
<p></quiz></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><p>The <em>quiz</em> tags do the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>They insert some standard quiz options at the top and a colour-key for marking. The colour-key only appears when the question is marked.</li>
<li>They add a "submit" button at the bottom for when the learner has finished the quiz and wants it marked.</li>
<li>Everything between the quiz tags is parsed by the quiz extension and turned into questions if possible.</li>
</ul>
<p>Theoretically it is possible to put <em>quiz</em> tags around each individual question, allowing a learner to mark each one in turn.</p>
<p><strong>Shuffling questions</strong>: if the shuffle questions button is shown, the questions can be shuffled by clicking the button. This only works so long as the quiz-taker has not started to answer the questions. Once the quiz-taker starts answering, the order is locked.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><quiz display=simple><br />
<em>insert questions here</em><br />
</quiz></p></td>
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><quiz display=simple></p>
<p>{<em>This is where questions would appear.</em>}</p>
<p></quiz></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><ul>
<li>Importantly, the addition of "display=simple" as an attribute of the quiz tag removes the points table at the top.</li>
<li>This is useful for short quizzes, and especially for situations where you insert single questions between text blocks.</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><quiz shuffle=none><br />
<em>insert questions here</em><br />
</quiz></p></td>
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><quiz shuffle=none></p>
<p>{<em>This is where questions would appear.</em>}</p>
<p></quiz></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><ul>
<li>If you'd like to keep the points table but get rid of the button for shuffling questions, use <em>shuffle=none</em> as shown.</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Inserting questions

The types of questions available are show below.

An important point is that **each question must be separated by a blank
line**, otherwise they are merged together into one question.

### How to use the examples

In the examples on this page, there is both *wikitext* and *rendering*.
The *wikitext* shows you the code, which you can copy and paste into
your pages, or just learn and understand. The *rendering* shows you what
the result will look like.

#### Copying and pasting

The markup has been slightly simplified in order to help
*understanding*. If you copy and paste, you must insert <quiz> tags
before and after the markup. You may wish to use the quiz tags with the
"display=simple" option as shown above.

Note that the actual example below also use *tables* for clarity. If a
quiz is inserted into a table, this modifies the appearance of a quiz -
for example, boxes appear around some elements in the quiz. If you don't
use a table, these boxes disappear and your quiz will look plainer.

When pasting, ensure that '''all the symbols are aligned with the left
of the p