在维基上有超过5百万的词条, 如何跳转至你所想得到的页面？比如说，当浏览者从输入框输入“火星”时，他们到底注重于查看什么？如果他们想要“火星 (元素)”却不得不用逗号分隔时," 搜索引擎会发现吗? 如果有人创建 "火星 (罗马神话中的神)" 时当已有一个叫 "火星(神话人物)"呢?

维基百科依赖于编辑者修正这样的错误,去创造(*重定向*)改正错误的页面,然后像路牌一样指引他们浏览到正确的页面(*消歧义*)。如此累积，浏览者们就能抵达自己想要的正确页面。

## 命名和重命名

最好的方法去处理一件错误是去不要让它放在第一位。这就是为什么维基百科有一个命名规则。只要多模仿这些页面，你就能更快的重命名这些页面。只要广大编辑者们一起努力，(样例请见**Figure 16-1** )新的编辑者们就可以正确的编辑这些页面。

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21403.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21403.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21403.png") (shortcut [WP:NAME](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:NAME "wikilink")), only partly shown here, gives you a sense of how detailed the policy is, including the related pages such as [Wikipedia:Naming conventions (people)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Naming_conventions_\(people\) "wikilink") (shortcut: [WP:NCP](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:NCP "wikilink"))。Fortunately, while new articles often get renamed, name changes thereafter are rarely needed.\]\]

### 普通的命名错误

这本手册无法保证收录任何的命名错误—如果能，你需要一个“铲车”搬运。如果你有个特别特殊的问题关于what to命名一个条目for a geographical location in Ireland, for example—whether to use the official Irish name or a former English name—you'll probably find an answer at the policy page [Wikipedia:Naming conventions](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Naming_conventions "wikilink") (shortcut [WP:NC](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:NC "wikilink")), which links to dozens and dozens of *naming convention* pages. (You can find the whole list at [:Category:Wikipedia naming conventions](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_naming_conventions "wikilink"), shortcut: [CAT:WNC](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAT:WNC "wikilink").) You can avoid the vast majority of errors, however, by keeping the following points in mind:

  - **Capitalize only the first word of article titles and section titles**. All other words in a title start with lowercase letters unless they're proper nouns and are capitalized anyway. If the title of the article is the title of a work like a book or a song, minor words like "in" are not capitalized, while the rest of the words in the title are; for example, "A Fool in Love."
  - **Use the most common name**. Don't use a person's formal first name ("Christopher" rather than "Chris") or add a middle initial to a name if that's not the most common usage. If you're not sure, use a search engine and compare the counts of results for each option.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    When several people in Wikipedia articles share the same common name, like George Allen, some editors try to differentiate between them by using a less common version of the name. For example, the article for the politician George Allen was once named "George Felix Allen," then "George F. Allen." The problem with these less common names is that they give you no clue, when you see them in an index or wikilink, as to who the person is. So avoid this approach. Check the disambiguation page (see [the section about disambiguation](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/#For_multiple_meanings:_Disambiguation "wikilink")), if there is one, and follow the established pattern there. In this example, George F. Allen became "George Allen (politician)."

<!-- end list -->

  - **Organizational titles**. Don't start an article title with "The." It's "Council of Organizational Associations," not "The Council of Organizational Associations," and don't use an acronym (for example, "NATO") even if it's more common than the full name of an organization.

### 重命名一个条目

重命名一个条目真的很简单。The trouble comes when you do something that other editors consider controversial. If you're fixing a clear error, and don't have any particular interest in the topic of an article, then go ahead and rename the article. (That is, do what Wikipedia calls a *page move*, as described in [the section about renaming pages](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/#Renaming_a_page "wikilink").)

On the other hand, if you have any reason to think the rename (move) might be opposed, then don't make it until you've discussed it on the article talk page. Treat a potentially controversial page move just as you would a controversial rewrite of an article.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1602.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1602.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1602.png")

#### 讨论你的重命名

To reach consensus about renaming a page, start a discussion on the article talk page. Focus the discussion on which naming policy and appropriate naming conventions apply. Avoid arguing, for example, that you like a certain name better, or that you find a name insulting. Stick to citing or interpreting policy and naming conventions.

When debating the name of the page or discussing merging it with another page, always mention the current page name. Otherwise, references to "this page name" become ambiguous after the page is renamed.

If you and the other editors can't reach a rough consensus, or majority rule on the move, then you can move on to one of the methods for resolving content disputes (see [Chapter 10: Resolving content disputes](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikipedia:_The_Missing_Manual/Collaborating_with_other_editors/Resolving_content_disputes "wikilink")). In addition, you can list the proposed move at the page [Wikipedia:Requested moves](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requested_moves "wikilink") (shortcut: [WP:RM](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:RM "wikilink")). That page lets you request wider community input on your move debate. But if more than just a couple of editors are involved in the discussion and consensus can't be reached, it's probably time for you to move on to other, more productive matters than changing an article title.

#### 重命名一个页面

If there's no controversy about a move, or if you've reached consensus with other interested editors, renaming a page is technically easy. The following steps rename the article *Samuel E. Wyly* to the common, and correct, "Sam Wyly."

[Vector_hidden_move_button.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Vector_hidden_move_button.png "fig:Vector_hidden_move_button.png") To practice along with this tutorial, you need to be logged in (anonymous IP users can't rename pages), and you must have had an account for at least four days. Instead of the Sam Wyly article (or other real article), move a subpage in your user space. (To see how to create such a subpage, see [the section about creating your personal sandbox](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikipedia:_The_Missing_Manual/Editing,_creating,_and_maintaining_articles/Setting_up_your_account_and_personal_workspace#Creating_your_personal_sandbox "wikilink").)

1\. Starting at the page you want to move (rename), click the "move" tab near the top of the page (see **Figure 16-3**).

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1604.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1604.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1604.png")

  -
    You arrive at the *Move page* page, shown in **Figure 16-4**. It contains a long list of instructions and warnings and, at bottom, a short form for typing the new article name and performing the move.

2\. In the "To new title" box at the bottom of the *Move page* page, type a new name for the page. In the Reason box, explain why you're making the move.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1605.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1605.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1605.png")

  -
    **Figure 16-5** shows the form filled in with new name and reason.

3\. Click the "Move page" button.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1606.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1606.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1606.png") 4. You'll see a new page with "Move succeeded" in small print, at the top of the page (**Figure 16-6**). You're almost done.

5\. Click the bolded "check" link to check for double redirects.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1607.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1607.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1607.png"). If you're not familiar at all with redirects, see [the section about redirects](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/#For_old_names_and_bad_spellers:_Redirects "wikilink").)\]\]

  -
    You'll see a page listing all the pages that link to the newly named page (see **Figure 16-7**). If you don't see any double redirects, as is the case here, you're done.

#### 当用户需要援助

In general, if you want to rename page A to become page B, but page B already exists, you won't be able to do the renaming yourself. You must ask an administrator to make the move.

If you can't move a page, list the proposed move at [Wikipedia:Requested moves](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requested_moves "wikilink") (shortcut: [WP:RM](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:RM "wikilink")), where administrators and other editors will review it. Requests are generally processed after a five-day review period, although backlogs of a few days develop occasionally. If there's a clear consensus after this time, the request will be closed and acted upon. If not, an administrator may choose to relist the request to allow time for consensus to develop, or to close it as "no consensus," in which case the move isn't going to happen.

Alternatively, if a move is non-controversial, but an existing page at the new name is in the way, you can nominate the existing page for speedy deletion to get it out of the way (see [the section about speedy deletion](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikipedia:_The_Missing_Manual/Building_a_stronger_encyclopedia/Deleting_existing_articles#Speedy_deletion "wikilink")). To do this, edit the page at the new name and type  at the top of the page (before any \#REDIRECT). Replace *old name* with the old name of the page you want to move, and give a brief explanation for the move in place of *reason for move*. If there has been any discussion of the move, you should link to that discussion in your reasoning. Preview your edit, then save. An administrator will review your nomination within a few hours and delete the page. You should then be able to perform the move without a problem, if the administrator didn't do it for you.

## 针对旧名与错误的拼写者们:重定向

When you or another editor moves a page, the old page name doesn't go away. Instead, it becomes a *redirect page* (or simply a *redirect*). That's good—other pages in Wikipedia are probably linked to the old name, and the redirect means the links on those other pages still work. They take the reader to the page in its new location.

You need to understand how redirects work for two reasons. First, sometimes a page move causes a *double redirect*, which you need to fix. Second, if you want, you can create redirects that will catch common spelling mistakes and get the reader to the right page.

### 重定向是怎么工作的(而且他们从何而来)

To understand why redirects exist, and how they work, consider this generic situation: Article A has a direct wikilink to article B. Say you move article B, changing the title to C. When you do, Wikipedia places a notice to itself—a redirect—at page B, pointing to the new name of page C. A reader clicks the link on page A. The software goes to page B, which still exists, but is now a redirect. The software sees the redirect and takes the reader to page C, where the desired article is now located, and displays that.

Why didn't the Wikipedia software, when you renamed page B to page C, simply change the wikilink at page A, so it points directly to C? One reason—perhaps the most important—is that Wikipedia software never, ever changes a page. Only editors can change pages, and such changes are shown in a page history. Also, the link from A to B could exist in many, many older versions of article A (hundreds, even thousands of prior versions). If B no longer exists, the links on all the older versions of page A become broken. The software would have to change all those hundreds of older versions to point to C as well. Fixing those wikilinks could be a huge load on the Wikipedia hardware, from just a single page move.

Here's an example to illustrate how a redirect caused by a move works, using actual article names. Consider the move of the article about the venture capital firm *Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers* to a page with a new name: *Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers* (the change was the deletion of commas, which aren't in the firm's actual name). At the time of the move, the article *Sand Hill Road* had a link to the old, incorrect name. **Figure 16-8** shows what happens when a reader clicks that link.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21799.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21799.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21799.png")

### 增加一个重定向

Redirects are useful for more than when you move a page. You can create redirects when there's an alternative term for a subject, when there's alternative capitalization and/or hyphenation, and when there's an alternative spelling (for example, British versus U.S.).

You can also use redirects to help readers get to the right page when they misspell a word or phrase, or enter incomplete information. For example, if you've just created a new article about a person, and you know that it's common to misspell the name of that person (Arnold Schwarzenegger, for example), you can create a redirect so that when a reader searches for the misspelled name (Schwartznegger), a redirect sends the reader to the article.

In fact, if you attempt to go to an article via the search box, and get "No page with that title exists" because you've misspelled a word, others will probably make exactly the same mistake. If so, you have an opportunity to create a redirect, so you'll be the last person ever to see that search results page rather than the desired article.

#### 创造一个新重定向页

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21838.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21838.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21838.png")

The following steps walk you through the process of creating a redirect. First, you need a common misspelling to redirect *from*. If you can't think of one off the top of your head, you can use, say, Microsoft Word's list of commonly misspelled words (see **Figure 16-9**).

1\. Type a misspelled word into Wikipedia's search box, click Go (or press Enter), and see if you get a response of "No page with that title exists."

  -
    If so, you've got your example.

2\. Put the correct word into the search box to see where that goes, which is where your redirect page should send the reader when they type the incorrect spelling into the search box.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1610.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1610.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1610.png")

3\. Suppose, for the sake of example, that you type "lisence" into the search box and see a page titled *Search* with bolded words "No page with that title exists" (**Figure 16-10**.).

4\. Leaving open the window shown in **Figure 16-10**, open another browser window, and, in Wikipedia's search box, type the correct spelling of the word or phrase.

  -
    Wikipedia takes you to the page with the article you wanted. It's "License" in this example, which is what you're going to redirect to. This step is important because you need to know the exact title of the page to redirect to (License, Licensing, or whatever).

5\. Copy the correct name of the article (press Ctrl+C or ⌘-C). Close this second window when you've done this copying.

  -
    If you copy the name, you don't have to worry about misspelling the article name when you create a redirect, which could be embarrassing.

6\. Back at the original window, click the bolded red "create this page" link.

  -
    You'll see a new page, titled *Editing Lisense* (for example), with a bunch of advice about creating an article. Since you're creating a redirect, not an article, ignore the advice and scroll down to the edit box.

7\. In the edit box, paste the text of the correct name, highlight this text, and click the "\#R" icon.

  -
    You see the text for the new redirect **Figure 16-11**. Your redirect is almost there.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21907.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21907.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e21907.png") 8. Add an edit summary (*Creating redirect* works well), and do a quick preview.

  -
    The preview shows what your new link will look like, plus the wikitext (**Figure 16-12**).

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1612.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1612.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1612.png")

9\. Click the "Save page" button.

  -
    When you see a page with the misspelled title at the top and the correct link below (**Figure 16-13**), you're done\!

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1613.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1613.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1613.png")

10\. For quality control purposes, click the link.

  -
    If that takes you to the wrong page, or even to a different page via a redirect, you need to fix the redirect so it points directly to the page it should. In your browser, click the Back button to get back to the redirect page. Click the "edit this page" tab, and fix the text within the double square brackets (see \#4 in **Figure 16-11**). Then add an edit summary, preview, and save again.

Redirects are handy for more than misspellings. For example, suppose you want to create a redirect for a relatively unknown product, called, say, ObscureProductX. Wikipedia doesn't have an article for ObscureProductX, since it's not notable enough. But the product is manufactured by ObscurbaCorp, about which Wikipedia *does* have an article. You can create a page *ObscureProductX*, and on that page put *\#REDIRECT \[\[ObscurbaCorp|ObscurbaCorp\]\]*. Someone searching for information about that product will be redirected to the article where it's mentioned.

#### 让重定向做得更好

You can create redirects that take the reader to a section of an article rather than to the top of the page. Continuing the previous example, suppose there's a section of the fictional *ObscurbaCorp* article called "Unusual health products," and that's the only section that mentions ObscureProductX. In this case, create the redirect wikitext like this: *\#REDIRECT \[\[ObscurbaCorp\#Unusual_health_products|ObscurbaCorp\#Unusual health products\]\]*. The "\#" sign tells the Wikipedia software that what follows is the name of the section ("Unusual health products").

Redirecting to a section, which sends the reader to the middle of an article, has one disadvantage. For example, if the "Unusual health products" section mentions ObscureProductX just briefly near the bottom of a long section, the reader could get confused about why he was sent there. Redirecting to the top of the article, from which a search will find the product, might be better. By contrast, if the redirect in the example had been to a section called "ObscureProductX's evaporation problem," there'd be no confusion.

You can also add a template to a redirect that puts the redirect into a category (see [the chapter about categorization](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikipedia:_The_Missing_Manual/Building_a_Stronger_Encyclopedia/Categorizing_Articles "wikilink"))—for example, redirects that deal with misspellings. The guideline [Wikipedia:Redirect](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Redirect "wikilink") (shortcut: [WP:R](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:R "wikilink")) lists a number of these, although most are likely to be useful only if Wikipedia begins using redirects as a database. You should use ** for redirects involving topics that might justifiably become an article at some later time. Adding that template puts the redirect page into the "Redirects with possibilities" category, which editors can use to find ideas for new articles. Simply put the template on a redirect page immediately after the ending double square brackets.

### 修复一个差的重定向

Redirects don't often go bad, so it's rare that you have to change one (except for double redirects, as described in the next section). But sometimes, perhaps due to vandalism, when you click a link on page A, get redirected via page B, and end up on page C, it's clear that page B points to the wrong place. To fix it, you could change the link on page A to point directly to where you want it to go, but if there are other links that go via redirect B, those links are still going to be wrong. Redirect page B needs to be fixed.

The challenge here is that if you type "B" into the search box, the Wikipedia software takes you to page C (that's what redirects do). To edit page B, not C, look for small print near the top of the page that says "Redirected from," followed by a link (see **Figure 16-8** for an example). Click that link to go to the redirect page (B) itself.

Once you're at the redirect page, fixing it is straightforward: Click the "edit this page" tab, change the text within the double square brackets (see \#4 in **Figure 16-11**), add an edit summary, preview it (**Figure 16-12**), and save the change.

### 修复双重重定向

In the steps in [the section about renaming a page](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/#Renaming_a_page "wikilink"), renaming the *Samuel E. Wyly* article didn't cause any problems with *double redirects*. As mentioned there, double redirects are when a link on page A goes to redirect page B, which goes to redirect page C, which points to page D. In such a case, when a reader clicks the link on page A, the Wikipedia software displays the redirect page C, which isn't what the reader needs. The link on page A or the redirect on page B needs to be changed.

#### 理解双重重定向

Before discussing how to fix a double redirect, consider why the software won't take the reader to page D, even though that's clearly the right place. Or, to be precise, why the software doesn't let two redirects function sequentially. Suppose an editor set up redirect page C so that it pointed *back* to redirect page B? The software would go in circles, processing the same instructions over and over, until a human intervenes or a mechanical failure occurs. (In computer speak, that's called an *infinite loop*.)

Sometimes you stumble upon double redirects, but the best time to find and fix them is when a page move creates them. Using the renaming of *Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers* (see [the section about redirects](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/#How_redirects_work_\(and_where_they_come_from\) "wikilink")) as an example again, suppose you had just done that page move and you're at the last step—checking for redirects. When you look at the "Pages that link to" page, in addition to the non-indented links (which point directly to the article as it's currently named) and single-indented links (which are linked by one redirect), you see some double indents. The double indents represent double redirects, like *Brook Byers* in **Figure 16-14**.

The clue to a double redirect is to look for the black text "(redirect page)" mixed in with the blue links (page names). The first "(redirect page)" you find is okay (that's a single redirect), but should you find a second redirect page that is *indented under the first*, then you've found a double redirect that needs to be fixed.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1614.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1614.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1614.png")

#### 修复双重重定向

A number of the links in **Figure 16-14** won't work because of double redirects. You have two choices: Fix the links within articles, so they bypass redirects altogether, going directly to the new page name; or, change a redirect. In other words, if article A links to redirect B, which points to redirect C, which points to article D, then you can fix the redirect by changing redirect B so that it points directly to article D. B is now a single redirect, which is okay. Here's how to decide which to do:

  - Most of the time, fixing a redirect is better than changing the links to the redirect. In **Figure 16-14**, notice the large number of links to the redirect *Kleiner Perkins*. Fixing one redirect is faster than fixing a whole bunch of links.
  - When there's a spelling mistake or something else where the reader is being misinformed, it's best to fix *both* the links and the redirect. In the redirect *Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers*, the word "Caulfield" is wrong (it should be "Caufield"). Since there are only two links to this redirect, that's an easy decision—fix the two links plus the one redirect.

Fixing a double redirect is easy. Here are the steps:

1\. At the top of the "Pages that link to" page, copy (to the clipboard) the current name of the article.

  -
    Use Ctrl+C, ⌘-C, or whatever works best for you. Copying reduces the likelihood of a typing error.

2\. Find a double redirect (for example, *Tom Perkins* in **Figure 16-14**), and open it in a new tab or window. Click the "edit this page" tab to get into editing mode.

  -
    In the edit box, the old page name is inside double square brackets.

3\. Select (highlight) the text inside the square brackets, and then paste (Ctrl-V or ⌘-V) the new name of the article over it. Tab to the edit summary box and type a brief explanation.

  -
    Something like *Fixing double redirect* is a good edit summary. When you're done, click "Show preview."

4\. Click "Save page."

  -
    You've fixed a double redirect. Close the page or tab you opened (step 2), which brings you back to the "Pages that link to" page, and do the same for all other double redirects.

Once you've fixed all the redirects that didn't point directly to the new name of the article, you can turn to any pages that have a link with a misspelling or other misinformation. Although these links now work, since the double redirects are gone, you may still need to correct other errors.

At the very end, check your work. Refresh the "Pages that link to" page (press Ctrl+R or ⌘-R) to make sure that everything you wanted to fix was fixed.

## 针对多样解释：消歧义

*Disambiguation* is a fancy word for how Wikipedia handles a single term that's associated with more than one topic. If you type a word or name that pertains to more than one article—Jerry Lewis, for example—disambiguation helps you find the article you're looking for.

You see disambiguation in two places:

  - **Disambiguation pages**. These are separate pages where you can pick a link to go to the article you want. Such pages normally begin something like "*Mercury* may refer to," followed by a list of several article links to choose from.
  - **Disambiguation links**. These are notes at the top of an article that say things like "For other uses of the word *mercury*, go to *mercury (element)*." In this case, the link may go directly to another article, or, if there are several alternative articles, to a disambiguation page—as in *mercury (disambiguation)*.

**Figure 16-15** shows both types of disambiguation.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22294.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22294.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22294.png")

Creating and updating disambiguation pages and disambiguation links at the top of articles are important skills for an editor. This section also shows you how to find and fix links in the body of articles that incorrectly go to a disambiguation page instead of directly to a specific article.

Disambiguation in Wikipedia involves fairly specialized knowledge, so this section starts out by introducing disambiguation concepts and helpful tools for getting readers to the right page. Then, when you end up at a page that isn't where you thought it was going to be, you'll be able to fix the problem.

### 消歧义页

消歧义页, as shown at the bottom of **Figure 16-15**, are easy to use, but creating them involves a bit of complexity. Naming such pages effectively is crucial. It's also important to get the formatting right. A good disambiguation page has enough details so readers can find the article they're looking for, but not so much text that they get muddled.

#### 命名消歧义页

Wikipedia has tens of thousands of disambiguation pages, which fit into two groups—those that have *(disambiguation)* as part of their name, and those that don't. Going back to the Jerry Lewis example, since the comedian Jerry Lewis is more well known than, say, a politician named Jerry Lewis, when you type *Jerry Lewis* into the search box, you arrive at the article about the comedian, titled *Jerry Lewis*. The other (not quite as famous) person has an article titled *Jerry Lewis (politician)*.

Now suppose the two Jerrys are equally well known. The previous arrangement wouldn't be fair. Or suppose there are several other famous Jerry Lewises as well. In such cases, the page titled *Jerry Lewis* should be a disambiguation page, listing individual articles called *Jerry Lewis (politician), Jerry Lewis (comedian)*, and so on, exactly as shown in **Figure 16-15**. **Figure 16-16** shows another example.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1616.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1616.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1616.png")

With disambiguation, Wikipedia aims for the *principle of least astonishment*—that is, to avoid surprising readers. So if there's a predominant article that most readers will expect—like an article about the comedian Jerry Lewis—searches for *Jerry Lewis* go directly to that article. That article has a disambiguation link going to a disambiguation page: *Jerry Lewis (disambiguation)*. If there's no overwhelmingly popular answer, as is the case for Donald Davidson, then searches for *Donald Davidson* go to a disambiguation page of the same name.

If you create a disambiguation page without the parenthetical phrase *(disambiguation)* in the title, you should list the page at [Wikipedia:Links to disambiguating pages](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Links_to_disambiguating_pages "wikilink") (shortcut: [WP:LDP](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:LDP "wikilink")), so that it doesn't get listed as an orphan page (no incoming links), and so the Wikipedia software can identify it as a problem should there be lots of incoming links.

#### 适当的格式和条目

Once a disambiguation page has a title, it needs two more elements—an introductory sentence and the entries. The guideline [Wikipedia:Manual of Style (disambiguation pages)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style_\(disambiguation_pages\) "wikilink") (shortcut: [MOS:DAB](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOS:DAB "wikilink")) goes into great detail about how to format these elements.

Disambiguation pages get one of three standard opening sentences. After the name of the topics comes "may refer to:," "is the name of:," or "may stand for:," as shown in **Figure 16-17** (top). The exception to these three is for pages with *(disambiguation)* in the title, where there's a clear primary meaning. In such cases, a sentence defining that primary meaning, with a link to the article, is recommended.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22472.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22472.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22472.png") (shortcut: [MOS:DAB](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOS:DAB "wikilink")). Bottom: If the disambiguation page has *(disambiguation)* in the title, it starts by defining the primary term first. The link *school* goes to the most popular article for that term.\]\]

After the brief opening sentence or sentences, the bulleted entries immediately follow. Make sure entries are in order of usage, with most-used meanings at the top. Here are some more tips:

  - **The first word or phrase in each entry normally has one navigable (blue) link**. These links shouldn't be piped; they should show exactly the name of the page that readers will go to when they click.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    One exception is when an entry is only one section in an article. In that case, you can link to that section with a piped link, and the link doesn't have to be at the beginning of the entry (see **Figure 16-18**.)

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1618.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1618.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1618.png") includes three examples of acceptable piped links that aren't the first words in an entry.\]\]

  - **Keep descriptions in entries minimal**. In general, don't exceed a single line onscreen. For example, for people, include their birth and death years (when known), plus brief descriptive information to help the reader distinguish between different entries.
  - **Don't bold or italicize entries**. If part of an entry should be italicized (for example, the name of a song), then use a piped link—for example, *\[\[Flower_(Liz_Phair_song)\]|''Flower'' (Liz Phair song)\]\]*.

As for what entries should and shouldn't be included, keep in mind the following:

  - A disambiguation page isn't a list of all entries that include a given word or phrase, but rather a place for readers who can reasonably be expected to arrive at that page.
  - If there is a reasonable chance of reader confusion due to misspelling ("Kington" versus "Kingston"), put the misspellings in a separate "See also" section.
  - You should add links to a non-existent article ("redlink") only when you're confident that an encyclopedia article can be written on the subject. (Every entry should have a link, either blue or red; a disambiguation page isn't a directory to the Internet.)

Long disambiguation pages can be broken into sections ("In science," "In music," "In popular culture"). If there are four or more sections, put the template ** at the top of the page to float the table of contents to the upper-right corner of the page (see [the section about floating the table of contents](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikipedia:_The_Missing_Manual/Formatting_and_illustrating_articles/Article_sections_and_tables_of_contents#Floating_the_table_of_contents "wikilink") for details).

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1619.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1619.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1619.png") (shortcut: [CAT:DRT](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAT:DRT "wikilink")).''\]\]

Finally, at the bottom of a page, there must be a disambiguation template telling readers what the page is and reminding them to fix improper links. It also puts the page into a proper category. **Figure 16-19** lists the choices for such a template. For example, ** is for locations (towns, rivers, and so on) and ** for human names. If more than one specialized template would apply to the page, use the general template **.

#### Fixing incoming links to disambiguation pages

With the exception of clarifying links at the top of articles (see [the section about disambiguation links](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/#Disambiguation_links "wikilink")), articles should never have a link to a disambiguation page. But editors do make mistakes. For example, a British editor might wikilink the word "lift," unaware that the page *Lift* is a disambiguation page. (The editor should have used the piped wikilink *\[\[elevator|lift\]\]*, which would display "lift" to the reader while taking the reader, if they click that link, to the article *Elevator*.)

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1620.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1620.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1620.png")

Finding and fixing wikilinks that link to disambiguation pages is easy: At a disambiguation page, in the "toolbox" links at the left side of the screen, click the first one, "What links here." Change the Namespace box to "(Main)," and click Go. You'll see a list of pages with links to the word "lift," as shown in **Figure 16-20**.

For each article that links to the disambiguation page but shouldn't, go to the article and edit the link so it's correct. For example, in the *Jet airliner* article, you would change *wing \[\[lift|lift\]\] performance* to *wing \[\[lift_(force)|lift\]\] performance*, since the word "lift" should link to the article *Lift (force)*.

These erroneous links accumulate over time, since editors rarely verify wikilinks when editing an article, and readers taken to disambiguation pages rarely see the note on the bottom of such pages about fixing incoming links. So, not surprisingly, there's a WikiProject (see [Chapter 9: WikiProjects and other group efforts](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Wikipedia:_The_Missing_Manual/Collaborating_with_Other_Editors/WikiProjects_and_Other_Group_Efforts "wikilink")) for those interested in fixing disambiguation links: [Wikipedia:WikiProject Disambiguation](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiProject_Disambiguation "wikilink"). But you don't have to be a member of that WikiProject to fix problems.

### 消歧义链接

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22715.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22715.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22715.png")

When a term is ambiguous, like, say, Ally McBeal, readers may not reach the article page they expected (the TV show instead of the character herself). In such cases, the article should contain, at the top, one or more links to alternative articles. You create these links using a disambiguation template, not formatting them by hand. **Figure 16-21** shows the simplest example, the ** template, in action:

There are a large number of disambiguation templates. The notes at the top of pages created by these templates are often called *hatnotes*. You can find a fairly complete list of these templates at the guideline [Wikipedia:Hatnote](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hatnote "wikilink") (shortcut: [WP:HAT](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:HAT "wikilink")). You only need to know the basic concepts, not memorize the list. (A more organized list is found at [Wikipedia:Otheruses templates (example usage)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Otheruses_templates_\(example_usage\) "wikilink"), shortcut: [WP:OTEU](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:OTEU "wikilink").)

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1622.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1622.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1622.png")

Hatnotes come in a long form ("This article is about the concept X; for the concept Y, see \[\[link|link\]\]") and a short form ("For the concept Y, see \[\[link|link\]\]"). Don't argue with other editors about which to use—it's not worth the trouble. But if you're adding a hatnote yourself, generally use the short form. **Figure 16-22** shows an extreme example of how awkward the long form of a hatnote can be.

As a rule, add disambiguation links only when there's a good chance that a confused reader has arrived at the wrong article. Thus, for an article like *Tree (set theory)*, a hatnote pointing to the page *Tree (disambiguation)* isn't needed, because someone reading up on set theory isn't expecting to read about greenery. Don't use disambiguation template links that have nothing to do with disambiguation. So, for example, in the article *Merck & Co*., it's incorrect to put a note at the top of the article saying "For the controversy over the drug Vioxx, which was manufactured by Merck, see *Rofecoxib*."

In an article's wikitext, disambiguation templates go below cleanup templates (also called *article messages boxes*, *amboxes*, and *message templates*) and should, in turn, be followed by images, navigational and infobox templates, and other article content.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22848.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22848.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_I_mediaobject1_d1e22848.png")

For articles that can be confused with each other but aren't actually related ([homonyms](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/homonym "wikilink") and [homophones](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/homophone "wikilink"), for instance), use the ** template. **Figure 16-23** shows an example, and the underlying wikicode.

## 针对非英语浏览者: 中介语链接

Wikipedia is available in many languages. Readers whose native language is not English often visit the English Wikipedia, perhaps because they followed a link from another website or search engine. Upon arriving at an English Wikipedia page, it is useful for them to know that the page is available on their own language's Wikipedia. Hence many articles have a box headed ** on the left of the page, which contains links to the same article in other languages of Wikipedia. Since the title of articles on foreign Wikipedias is often different from the title on the English Wikipedia, editors must add *interlanguage links* to articles for the software to know which foreign language articles to list in the ** box.

[Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1707.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1707.png "fig:Wikipedia-The_Missing_Manual_1707.png")</nowiki>'' indicates that the corresponding category in the German Wikipedia is called *Kategorie:Medien (Algerien)*. The line that follows this gives the name of the category on the French Wikipedia.\]\]

**Figure 16-24** shows an example of interlanguage links to the German and French Wikipedias. The wikicode for an interlanguage link uses double square brackets like regular internal links do. The important difference is the language code at the start of the link. This is followed by a colon then the title of the article on the foreign Wikipedia.

You can find the language code for a foreign Wikipedia by looking in your browser's address bar when viewing it. The language code is whatever appears just before *.wikipedia.org* in the address. For example, the address of the French Wikipedia starts *fr.wikipedia.org*, so the language code is *fr*. Though the language code is usually two characters, there are a few languages that have longer codes.

New interlanguage links should always be added near the bottom of an article's wikicode, after any categories. You normally edit (add, delete, change) interlanguage links by going to the last section of an article and clicking the "edit" link. If you find any interlanguage links anywhere other than in the last section of an article, move them.

### Discussing interlanguage links

Here's a puzzle that editors sometimes encounter: How do you link to Wikipedia in other languages on a discussion page? If you type

  -
    *\[\[de:Page_name_in_German|de:Page name in German\]\]*

the link won't show up where you typed it. It'll instead show up in the ** box on the left, which isn't very helpful. To display an interlanguage link where you want it, add a colon after *\[\[*, just before the language code, like this:

  -
    *\[\[:de:Page_name_in_German|:de:Page name in German\]\]*

### Interwiki links

Another type of link that is easy to confuse with an interlanguage link is an *interwiki* link. Whereas interlanguage links go to Wikipedia in other languages, interwiki links go to wikis that are not Wikipedia. Though most interwiki links point to projects operated by the Wikimedia Foundation (Commons, Wiktionary, Wikibooks, etc.), interwiki links can also point to third-party wikis.

Interwiki links look just like an interlanguage link, but use an *interwiki prefix* instead of a language code. For example, *\[\[\[\[commons:Main_Page|</nowiki>[commons:Main Page](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/commons:Main_Page "wikilink")\]\]* links to the Main Page of Wikimedia Commons.

You can find a complete list of the language codes and interwiki prefixes you can use on Wikipedia at the [Special:Interwiki](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Interwiki "wikilink") page.

[Category:Wikipedia_naming_conventions](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_naming_conventions "wikilink") [Category:Wikipedia_redirecting](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_redirecting "wikilink") [Category:Wikipedia_disambiguation](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_disambiguation "wikilink")