《**宝莱坞机器人之恋**》（印度英语：*Enthiran*）是2010年印度[泰米尔语](../Page/泰米尔语.md "wikilink")[科幻](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/科幻片 "wikilink")[动作片](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/动作片 "wikilink")，由编剧、导演\[1\]，是《》的首部作品。影片由、[艾西瓦娅·雷](../Page/艾西瓦娅·雷.md "wikilink")、、和联袂出演，[A·R·拉赫曼谱写](../Page/A·R·拉赫曼.md "wikilink")，while
the dialogues, cinematography, editing and art direction were handled by
, ,  and  respectively.

The story revolves around the struggle of a scientist Vaseegaran (played
by Rajinikanth) to control his creation, an
[android](../Page/人形機器人.md "wikilink") named  (also played by
Rajinikanth), after Chitti's software is upgraded to give it the ability
to comprehend and exhibit human emotions. The project backfires when
Chitti falls in love with Vaseegaran's girlfriend, Sana (Rai), and is
manipulated by Bohra (Denzongpa), a rival scientist, into becoming
homicidal.

After being stalled in the  phase for nearly a decade, the film's
principal photography began in 2008 and lasted two years. The film
marked the debut of  studio (which was responsible for the film's  and )
in Indian cinema. 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was released worldwide on 1 October 2010,
along with its [dubbed](../Page/配音.md "wikilink") versions: *Robot* in
[Hindi](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/印地语 "wikilink") and *Robo* in
[Telugu](../Page/泰卢固语.md "wikilink"). Produced by , it was India's  up
to that point.

The film received generally positive reviews upon release. Critics were
particularly appreciative of Rajinikanth's performance as Chitti,
Rathnavelu's cinematography, Cyril's art direction and the visual
effects by . 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 emerged as the top-earning Indian film of 2010
and is the [fourth-highest-grossing](../Page/印度最高電影票房.md "wikilink")  of
all time. It won two [Indian National Film
Awards](../Page/印度國家電影獎.md "wikilink"), three , seven  and
two . 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was followed up by its , **, which released in 2018.

## 剧情

After a decade of research, the scientist Vaseegaran creates a
sophisticated [android robot](../Page/人形機器人.md "wikilink") with the help
of his assistants, Siva and Ravi, to commission it into the [Indian
Army](../Page/印度陸軍.md "wikilink"). He introduces the robot, named , at a
robotics conference in
[Chennai](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/金奈 "wikilink"). Chitti helps
Sana, Vaseegaran's [medical student](../Page/醫學院.md "wikilink")
girlfriend, cheat in her examination, then saves her from being
assaulted by a group of thugs. Vaseegaran's mentor, Professor Bohra, is
secretly engaged in a project to create similar android robots for a
terrorist organisation, but has so far been unsuccessful.

Vaseegaran prepares Chitti for an evaluation by the Artificial
Intelligence Research and Development (AIRD) Institute, which is headed
by Bohra. During the evaluation, Chitti attempts to stab Vaseegaran at
Bohra's command, which convinces the evaluation committee that the robot
is a liability and cannot be used for military purposes. Vaseegaran's
effort to prove Bohra wrong fails when he deploys Chitti to rescue
people from a burning building. The robot saves most of them, including
a girl named Selvi who was bathing at the time, but she is ashamed at
being seen naked on camera and flees, only to be hit and killed by a
truck. Vaseegaran asks for one month to modify Chitti's  to enable it to
understand human behaviour and emotions, to which Bohra agrees. While
nearing the deadline, Chitti becomes angry with Vaseegaran,
demonstrating to him that it can manifest emotions.

Chitti uses Sana's textbooks to successfully help Sana's sister Latha
give birth to a child. Bohra congratulates Vaseegaran on the achievement
and allows Chitti to pass the AIRD evaluation. Chitti develops romantic
feelings for Sana after she congratulates Chitti by kissing it. When
Vaseegaran and Sana realise this, Sana explains to Chitti that they are
only friends. Saddened by Sana's rejection, yet still in love with her,
Chitti deliberately fails an evaluation conducted by the Indian Army.
Enraged, Vaseegaran chops Chitti into pieces, which are dumped by Siva
and Ravi into a landfill site.

Bohra visits the site to retrieve Chitti, which has now reassembled
itself, albeit in a damaged state. Bohra embeds a red chip inside Chitti
while reconstructing it, converting it into version 2.0, which is more
aggressive and unempathetic. It then gatecrashes Vaseegaran and Sana's
wedding, kidnaps Sana, creates replicas of itself and kills Bohra. Using
its robot army, Chitti occupies AIRD and causes mayhem in the city.
After informing Sana that it has acquired the human ability to
reproduce, Chitti wishes to marry her so that a machine and a human
being can give birth to a preprogrammed child, but Sana refuses. It
eventually finds Vaseegaran, who entered AIRD to stop it, and nearly
kills him before the police appear. The ensuing battle between Chitti's
robot army and the police personnel leads to a lot of property
destruction and many casualties. Vaseegaran eventually captures Chitti
using a magnetic wall and accesses its internal control panel, whereby
he instructs all the other robots to self-destruct. He then removes
Chitti's red chip, calming it.

In a court hearing, Vaseegaran is sentenced to death for the casualties
and damages caused by the robot army, but Chitti explains that it was
Bohra who caused its deviant behaviour and shows the court video footage
of Bohra installing the red chip. The court releases Vaseegaran, while
ordering that Chitti be dismantled. Left with no choice, Vaseegaran asks
Chitti to dismantle itself. While saying goodbye, Chitti apologises to
Vaseegaran and Sana, who forgive it, before dismantling itself.

The film's setting then shifts to 2030. Chitti is now a museum exhibit.
A curious school student on excursion asks her guide why it was
dismantled, to which Chitti responds, "*Naan sinthikka arambichen*" (*I
started thinking*).

## 阵容

  - as Vaseegaran and \[2\]

  - [Aishwarya Rai](../Page/艾西瓦娅·雷.md "wikilink") as Sana\[3\]

  - as Bohra\[4\]

  - as Siva\[5\]

  - as Ravi\[6\]

  - as the traffic police officer\[7\]

  - as Pachaimuthu\[8\]

  - as Vaseegaran's father\[9\]

  - as the neighbourhood bully\[10\]

  - as Latha, Sana's sister\[11\]

  - as Vaseegaran's mother\[12\]

  - as Shah

  - as the police inspector\[13\]

  - as the curious student\[14\]

  - as one of the barbers working at \[15\]

  - as K. Bhajanlal, one of the customers at The Park Hotel\[16\]

## 制作

### 源起

Following the completion of his first directorial venture in Hindi, **
(2001),  announced his next project, *Robot*, which was to feature
[Kamal Haasan](../Page/卡茂爾·哈桑.md "wikilink") and [Preity
Zinta](../Page/普丽缇·泽塔.md "wikilink").\[17\]\[18\] The film was to be
produced by the now-defunct company Media Dreams, a division of
.\[19\]\[20\] The film was reported to be a futuristic  set in Chennai
in around 2200 or
3000 [AD](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/基督纪年 "wikilink").\[21\]\[22\]
Despite the completion of a photoshoot featuring Haasan and Zinta,\[23\]
the project was shelved as a result of scheduling conflicts with
Haasan.\[24\] Shankar consequently started work on ** (2003).\[25\]

After *Boys*, Shankar began work on his next feature starring , which
was initially reported by  to be *Robot* revived,\[26\] but was later
revealed as ** (2005).\[27\]\[28\] One month post the release of his
action film *[Sivaji](../Page/大行善者.md "wikilink")* in June 2007, he
approached [Shah Rukh Khan](../Page/沙·魯克·罕.md "wikilink") for the lead
in *Robot*. Khan was about to produce it under his own banner, , but in
October the same year the project was officially aborted due to creative
differences between the two.\[29\]\[30\]

The project was revived in January 2008 with  and the
[London](../Page/伦敦.md "wikilink")-based production company  willing
to produce the film.\[31\] The state government of [Tamil
Nadu](../Page/泰米尔纳德邦.md "wikilink") granted tax exemptions for films
titled in [Tamil](../Page/泰米尔语.md "wikilink"), resulting in the new
production being renamed 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》.\[32\] While  was originally
assigned to write the dialogue for the film,  took over after
Rangarajan's death in February 2008.\[33\] In December 2008, Eros
International withdrew from funding the project after financial
difficulties caused by the box-office failure of ** (2008) and **
(2008),\[34\] with the subsequent departure of Ayngaran International,
which struggled with the [global financial crisis of
2007–08](../Page/2007年–2008年環球金融危機.md "wikilink").\[35\] The film's
production and release rights were sold to .\[36\]

### 选角

[Rajini_and_Aishwarya_Rai.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Rajini_and_Aishwarya_Rai.jpg "fig:Rajini_and_Aishwarya_Rai.jpg")
In January 2008,  accepted the lead role in the film for a salary of
450 million ([Indian rupees](../Page/印度盧比.md "wikilink")).\[37\]\[38\]
Shankar rewrote the original script to suit Rajinikanth's acting style.
In an interview with the Tamil channel , held shortly after the film's
release in October 2010, Rajinikanth revealed that Shankar, following
the release of his ** in 1996, had approached and pitched three
storylines for him to consider for his next venture. Rajinikanth was
impressed with two of the scripts and agreed to star in the films, which
became *Sivaji* and 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》. The third script narrated by Shankar
focused on an aspiring bodybuilder; it eventually became **
(2015).\[39\]

Although [Aishwarya Rai](../Page/艾西瓦娅·雷.md "wikilink") was Shankar's
original choice for the female lead in 2001, she declined it owing to a
busy schedule and was replaced by Zinta.\[40\] When Shankar revived the
project with Rajinikanth,\[41\] contenders for the part included
[Priyanka Chopra](../Page/佩麗冉卡·曹帕拉.md "wikilink"),\[42\] [Deepika
Padukone](../Page/荻皮卡·帕都恭.md "wikilink"),\[43\] [Shriya
Saran](../Page/絲莉婭·紗蘭.md "wikilink") and Rai, who was ultimately
selected and paid 60 million.\[44\]\[45\] Rai's voice was dubbed by
.\[46\]

Several actors were considered for the role of Professor Bohra,
including [Amitabh Bachchan](../Page/阿米塔布·巴沙坎.md "wikilink"),\[47\]
,\[48\]  and British actor [Ben
Kingsley](../Page/本·金斯利.md "wikilink"),\[49\]\[50\] but it was
who eventually received it, making 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 his first film in
Tamil.\[51\] Dubbing for Denzongpa was provided by Kadhir.\[52\]
Comedians  and  were cast to portray Vaseegaran's assistants Siva and
Ravi respectively.\[53\]

The soundtrack album and background score were composed by A. R.
Rahman.\[54\] ,  and Madhan Karky authored the lyrics for the
songs.\[55\]\[56\] , son of filmmaker , was signed on to be an assistant
director after he approached Shankar.\[57\] Also working as assistant
directors were ,\[58\] Shree and Karthik G. Krish.\[59\]\[60\] , in
addition to being the film's art director, made a guest appearance as
Shah, an interpreter between Bohra and the terrorist organisation.\[61\]

was hired as the cinematographer after ,\[62\]  and  were
considered.\[63\]\[64\]  was the film's editor.\[65\] [Yuen
Woo-ping](../Page/袁和平.md "wikilink"), known for his work in [*The
Matrix* trilogy](../Page/黑客帝国系列.md "wikilink") and the *[Kill
Bill](../Page/杀死比尔.md "wikilink")* films, was selected to be the stunt
co-ordinator,\[66\] while , a visual effects studio based in the United
States, were in charge of the  and animatronics in the film.\[67\]
[Munich](../Page/慕尼黑.md "wikilink")-based film technical company, , were
responsible for the s.\[68\] The film's [subtitle
captioning](../Page/字幕.md "wikilink") was done by Rekha
Haricharan.\[69\]

### 服装设计

and Mary E. Vogt were chosen to design the film's costumes.\[70\]
Fifty-seven costumes were used for Rai, including a "Mexican tribal"
look that she sported during the filming of the "" segment.\[71\]
According to make-up artist , no prosthetics were used for Rajinikanth
to avoid bothering him by withholding his time on set.\[72\] Additional
make-up was by Vance Hartwell, an employee of Legacy Effects.\[73\]

The visual appearance of Chitti was based on the  [action
figures](../Page/可動人偶.md "wikilink"). For Chitti's "villain robot" look,
its hair was spiked and brown coloured lenses were used for its eyes,
whereas for its "good robot" look, green coloured lenses were
used.\[74\] The wig used for Chitti's "villain robot" look had a silver
streak in the middle, made out of [Yak](../Page/牦牛.md "wikilink")
hair,\[75\] while its leather jacket was designed by Vogt.\[76\] To make
Vaseegaran look mature, the team made Rajinikanth sport an [Oakley
beard](../Page/鬍鬚.md "wikilink"). Suits made of copper were used for
Chitti's costumes.\[77\]

### 主体摄影

For Sabu Cyril's sets, Shankar required approximately twice as much
studio floor space as for his previous film. After rejecting  for
technical reasons, 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》{{'s}} producer, , took six months to set
up three air-conditioned studio floors on land in
[Perungudi](../Page/佩龙格乌迪.md "wikilink") owned by Sun TV Network.
Filming began on 15 February 2008 at  in Chennai.\[78\] After the
initial stages of filming, Shankar and Rathnavelu toured the world for
three weeks, scouting for exotic filming locations.\[79\] They visited
Austria, Germany, Peru, Brazil and Argentina, looking for a backdrop to
shoot the "Kilimanjaro" and "Kadhal Anukkal" segments,\[80\] eventually
deciding on Peru and Brazil.\[81\]\[82\] "Kilimanjaro" was filmed at the
ruins of the [Incan](../Page/印加帝國.md "wikilink") city of [Machu
Picchu](../Page/马丘比丘.md "wikilink") in Peru, with some 100 Brazilian
extras.\[83\]\[84\] It was choreographed by  and supervised by Fernando
Astete, director of the Machu Picchu archaeological park.\[85\]\[86\]
"Kadhal Anukkal" was filmed in [Lençóis Maranhenses National
Park](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/倫索伊斯馬拉年塞斯國家公園 "wikilink") in
northeastern Brazil.\[87\]

The filming for Chitti's introduction to the international robotics
conference was completed in December 2008 at  and , where more than
400 students were used as extras.\[88\]\[89\] Further footage was shot
over five days at the  on the [Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines](../Page/商船三井.md "wikilink") car carrier, *Neptune
Ace*.\[90\] An action sequence where Chitti saves Sana from thugs was
filmed in [Lonavla](../Page/洛纳瓦拉.md "wikilink"), under the supervision
of the action choreographer .\[91\] Scenes featuring Rajinikanth as
Chitti were captured over five days at the [Perungudi Dump
Yard](../Page/佩龙格乌迪.md "wikilink") in Chennai.\[92\] Sabu Cyril told Uma
Kannan of ** that the sets for the climax sequence, which was filmed at
, consisted of a tar road and glass buildings which rose to , and that ,
reported to have cost 50 million, were also used to design the
sets.\[93\]\[94\]

The set for "", a sequence choreographed by ,\[95\] was designed and
constructed by Cyril at Ramoji Film City.\[96\] Filming of the number
took place over 22 days in April 2009.\[97\] Junior artists were
employed by Rathnavelu to wear masks of Rajinikanth.\[98\] For the
sequence entitled "Irumbile Oru Irudhaiyam", choreographed by  and
featuring Rai and Rajinikanth as Chitti,\[99\] three different sets were
used: one of copper, one of gold and one in silver.\[100\] The musical
number, which was filmed in AVM Studios for eight days, was the last
portion of the film's principal photography.\[101\] D'Souza incorporated
the [popping](../Page/機械舞.md "wikilink") style of [street
dances](../Page/街舞.md "wikilink"), but encountered difficulties in
performing the dance movements in tandem with the robot, and with the
restrictions created by the rigid costumes.\[102\] Principal photography
ended on 7 July 2010.\[103\]

### 特效

Impressed with the film's script,  became the visual effects supervisor
in December 2007. He asked Shankar to increase the filming schedules by
six months to include pre-production requirements.\[104\]\[105\] Both
Mohan and Shankar visited several visual effects companies, including
the New Zealand-based [Weta Digital](../Page/维塔数码.md "wikilink") and the
United States-based [Industrial Light &
Magic](../Page/光影魔幻工業.md "wikilink"),  and  before
partnering with Legacy Effects.\[106\]\[107\] The original Eros-Ayngaran
visual effects budget was 700 million, but after Sun Pictures took over
production, it was significantly reduced to 200 million. As a result,
the visual effects team had to omit and alter some sequences, making
Chitti wear sunglasses for most of the film to reduce the cost and
difficultly of animating his eyes.\[108\]

After a series of  tests, including a scene in which Chitti jumps on a
train to save Sana, Mohan eventually decided to use the technique in
40 out of the 60 visual effects scenes featured in the film,\[109\]
consisting of 2,000 takes.\[110\] Further previsualisation supervision
was conducted by P. C. Sanath of Firefly Creative Studios, a visual
effects company based in
[Hyderabad](../Page/海得拉巴_\(印度\).md "wikilink").\[111\] [3D
storyboards](../Page/分鏡.md "wikilink") were constructed using
3D animation programs for every scene in the film and were shot from
different angles.\[112\] In an interview with Malathi Rangarajan of
*[The Hindu](../Page/印度报.md "wikilink")*, Mohan said that all of the
pre-production work took one-and-a-half years to complete.\[113\]

Rathnavelu used the  camera and also wrote a 1,600-page manual, in which
he listed all of the possible angles from where he could film the
characters Rajinikanth played.\[114\]\[115\] Legacy Effects and the Hong
Kong-based visual effects companies Kinomotive Studios and Menfond
Electronics took responsibility for the film's
[CGI](../Page/電腦成像.md "wikilink") work.\[116\] To create the
robots with Rajinikanth's appearance, a complete scan of his face in
3D digital format in all possible lighting conditions was conducted
using the Doom Light Stage, so that his face could be replicated on the
[mannequins](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/人体模型 "wikilink").\[117\] The
technique, according to Shankar, was previously used in *[The Curious
Case of Benjamin Button](../Page/奇幻逆緣.md "wikilink")* (2008).\[118\] The
robot Chitti featured in the film was a mannequin made by a Legacy
Effects team of 100 technicians in Los Angeles. For every robotic
mannequin used, six puppeteers were employed to control the mannequin's
movements.\[119\]

## 主题和影响

《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 focuses on the battle between man and machine.\[120\] Despite
Shankar's claim that 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was a purely original idea,\[121\] it
has been compared to [Mary Shelley](../Page/玛丽·雪莱.md "wikilink")'s
1818 novel *[Frankenstein](../Page/科學怪人.md "wikilink")*, owing to the
similar personae of Chitti and [Frankenstein's
monster](../Page/弗兰肯斯坦的怪物.md "wikilink"), both of which
turn against their respective creators.\[122\]\[123\] K. Moti Gokulsing
and Wimal Dissanayake, in their book *Routledge Handbook of Indian
Cinemas*, noted the similarity between the two works, arguing that
Chitti was "manipulated by Bohra to become a Frankenstein-like
figure".\[124\] Writing for *[The A.V.
Club](../Page/影音俱樂部.md "wikilink")*, Genevieve Koski observed,
"The plot of 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 is essentially *Frankenstein* via
\[\[艾萨克·阿西莫夫|\[Isaac\] Asimov\]\]'s [Three Laws of
Robotics](../Page/机器人三定律.md "wikilink")."\[125\]

Director and film critic  called 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 "a superhero film, a sci-fi
adventure, a triangular love story with a hint of the
[Ramayana](../Page/罗摩衍那.md "wikilink")", while remarking that
《宝莱坞机器人之恋》{{'s}} similarities to *[The
Terminator](../Page/终结者.md "wikilink")* (1984) were "more than obvious.
Not just visually—where we see the Superstar with one human eye and one
scarred metallic eye but also intentionally spelt out when the bad robot
announces that he has created Terminators."\[126\] Kamath compared two
of the film's robots to [C-3PO](../Page/C-3PO.md "wikilink") and
[R2-D2](../Page/R2-D2.md "wikilink"),  from the *[Star
Wars](../Page/星際大戰.md "wikilink")* film series, which was
referenced in 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 when Vaseegaran refers to one of his creations
as "R2".\[127\]

Although Shankar initially claimed that 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 would be made for all
audiences, including those lacking [computer
literacy](../Page/计算机文化.md "wikilink"),\[128\] the film is
influenced by and makes references to many scientific principles
relating to the fields of engineering, computer science and robotics,
including [terabytes](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/太字节 "wikilink") and
Asimov's laws of robotics.\[129\] Visual references are made to the s
*[A Briefer History of Time](../Page/时间简史（普及版）.md "wikilink")* (2005)
and *[Freakonomics](../Page/蘋果橘子經濟學.md "wikilink")* (2005).\[130\] In
his book *Visual Perception and Cultural Memory: Typecast and
Typecast(e)ing in Malayalam Cinema*, Sujith Kumar Parayil notes the
similarities between Kalabhavan Mani's role in the film to the one Mani
played in the [Malayalam](../Page/马拉雅拉姆语.md "wikilink") film **
(1996).\[131\]

## 音乐

For 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》's soundtrack and score, A. R. Rahman made use of the , an
instrument he had experimented with previously in the song "Rehna Tu"
from 's [drama film](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/劇情片 "wikilink") **
(2009).\[132\] The film also marked the debut of Rahman's daughter
Khatija as a playback singer.\[133\]

The soundtrack album to 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was released on 31 July 2010 at the
in [Kuala Lumpur](../Page/吉隆坡.md "wikilink"), Malaysia.\[134\] The Tamil
and Telugu versions were released by Think Music, while the Hindi
version was released by Venus Music.\[135\] Think Music purchased the
release rights of the Tamil and Telugu versions of the album for
70 million.\[136\] The album of the film's Telugu version, *Robo*, was
released on 6 August 2010, while its Hindi version, *Robot*, was
released on 14 August 2010.\[137\]\[138\] After the second day of
release, the album's Tamil version reached the number one position in
the Top 10 World Albums chart on [iTunes](../Page/ITunes.md "wikilink"),
making it the first Tamil album to do so.\[139\]\[140\]

## 发行

《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was released on 1 October 2010 in three languages—in Tamil as
《宝莱坞机器人之恋》, in Hindi as *Robot* and in Telugu as *Robo*.\[141\]\[142\]
The original version was in Tamil, while the Hindi and Telugu versions
were dubbed.\[143\] The film was released in 2,250 theatres worldwide,
including 500 theatres in Tamil Nadu,\[144\] 350 theatres in [Andhra
Pradesh](../Page/安得拉邦.md "wikilink"),\[145\] 128 theatres in
[Kerala](../Page/喀拉拉邦.md "wikilink"),\[146\] 23 theatres in
[Karnataka](../Page/卡纳塔克邦.md "wikilink"), and 750 theatres in North
India.\[147\]\[148\] With an estimated budget of
1.321.62 billion,\[149\] 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was  up to that
point,\[150\]\[151\] surpassing the Hindi film ** (2009), which was
filmed on a budget of 750 million.\[152\]

《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 became the first Tamil film to be released at the , a
[Norwegian](../Page/挪威.md "wikilink") theatre complex in
[Oslo](../Page/奥斯陆.md "wikilink"),\[153\] and it was screened at the
21st , held in the United Kingdom in 2011.\[154\] Additionally, a
version of the film, edited to a running length of two hours, was
released in Japan in May 2012, and later screened at the 24th [Tokyo
International Film Festival](../Page/東京國際電影節.md "wikilink"), where it
won a special award under the section "Winds of Asia–Middle
East".\[155\]\[156\] By public demand, the original, unedited version
was later released in that country.\[157\]

### 营销和发行

The first poster for 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was released on 8 September 2008.\[158\]
The film's trailer was released on 11 September 2010, at the  theatre
complex in Chennai.\[159\] To promote 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》,  organised a festival
from 25 September 2010 until its release date, in which they screened
popular films of Rajinikanth at the company's theatre in .\[160\] In
Coimbatore, the  printed 100,000 post cards advertising the film.\[161\]
Sun Pictures invested a total of 500 million on promotional
activities.\[162\]

Advance bookings for the film began two weeks before the release date in
the United States. In the [Jackson Heights](../Page/杰克逊高地.md "wikilink")
neighbourhood in New York, tickets were sold out within ten minutes of
going on sale.\[163\] In Kerala the distribution rights were sold for
50 million,\[164\] while in Karnataka they were sold for
100 million.\[165\] The distribution rights in Mumbai were sold to
Shringar Films.\[166\] In the United Kingdom, 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was released by
Ayngaran International, while *Robot* was released by .\[167\] DVD
marketing in India was handled by ;\[168\] Ayngaran International
released the two-DVD set of the film in early 2011.\[169\]

### 抄袭指控

The novelist Aarur Thamizhnadan made a complaint with the  against the
filmmakers in November 2010, stating that the producers plagiarised his
1996 novel *Jugiba*.\[170\]\[171\] Thamizhnadan demanded 10 million from
the director and producers for damages and filed a case against
Kalanithi Maran.\[172\]\[173\] In June 2011, the  dismissed the case
after a petition filed by Maran denying the allegation was
approved.\[174\]

## 发行

### 票房

The daily newspaper ** reported that 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 grossed 580 million from
all versions in the opening weekend,\[175\] and ** stated it netted
1.17 billion by the end of its opening week.\[176\] According to a
February 2015 report by *Hindustan Times*, the film has grossed ₹2.56
billion worldwide in its lifetime.\[177\]  stated in July 2015 that the
film grossed ₹2.90 billion from both its original and dubbed
versions.\[178\] 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 became the top-earning Indian film of 2010
ahead of *[My Name Is Khan](../Page/我的名字叫可汗.md "wikilink")* and ** and
became the [highest-grossing Tamil film of all
time](../Page/印度最高電影票房.md "wikilink") at that
point.\[179\]\[180\]

As of January 2018, 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 is the
[fourth-highest-grossing](../Page/印度最高電影票房.md "wikilink")  of all time
after [S. S. Rajamouli](../Page/S·S·拉傑摩利.md "wikilink")'s two-part
[historical fiction](../Page/時代小說.md "wikilink") films *[Baahubali 2:
The Conclusion](../Page/巴霍巴利王：磅礴終章.md "wikilink")* (2017) and
*[Baahubali: The Beginning](../Page/帝國戰神：巴霍巴利王.md "wikilink")*
(2015),\[181\]\[182\] and 's  *[Kabali](../Page/卡巴里.md "wikilink")*
(2016).\[183\]  estimated that 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 netted 1.95 billion across
India with the Tamil version netting 1.20 billion, the Telugu version
netting 530 million and the Hindi version netting
220 million.\[184\]\[185\] The website estimated the overseas earnings
of the film (including its dubbed versions) at approximately $12 million
as of November 2010 with the Tamil version grossing $11 million and the
remaining $1 million coming in from the Telugu and Hindi
versions.\[186\] 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 collected 1.05 billion in Tamil Nadu
alone,\[187\] a record it held for seven years before being surpassed by
*[Baahubali 2: The Conclusion](../Page/巴霍巴利王：磅礴終章.md "wikilink")*
(2017), which grossed 1.526 billion.\[188\]

### 专业评价

#### 印度

《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 received positive reviews from critics in India, with praise
particularly directed at Rathnavelu's cinematography, Cyril's art
direction, Srinivas Mohan's visual effects and Rajinikanth's performance
as Chitti.\[189\]\[190\] Aniruddha Guha of *[Daily News and
Analysis](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/每日新闻与分析 "wikilink")* gave the
film a rating of four out of five stars and believed it had the "best
special effects ever seen in a Tamil film" and that it was "one of the
most entertaining Tamil films—across all languages—ever made."\[191\]
Both  of *The Times of India* and Kaveree Bamzai of *[India
Today](../Page/今日印度.md "wikilink")* rated the film four out of five
stars. Kazmi called it "the perfect getaway film".\[192\] Bamzai praised
Rajinikanth's acting in the film and said, "Rajni tells us why robot
sapiens are superior to [homo
sapiens](../Page/智人.md "wikilink")".\[193\]

Both  of [NDTV](../Page/新德里电视台.md "wikilink") and Pavithra Srinivasan of
Rediff.com gave 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 a rating of three-and-a-half stars out of
five. Chopra criticised the film's portions in the second half,
describing them as "needlessly stretched and cacophonous",\[194\] but
concluded her review by saying, "*Robot* rides on Rajinikanth's
shoulders and he never stoops under the burden. Aided by snazzy clothes,
make-up and special effects, he makes Chitti endearing."\[195\]
Srinivasan, however, said that Shankar "strikes the balance between
science fiction and masala quotient."\[196\] She concluded that,
"Whichever way you look at it,  is one of those rare films that give you
just enough material to pull you in, and enjoy yourself."\[197\]  of
gave a rating of three out of five stars and said, "In the end, it's the
fantastic special effects and an inspired performance from  that keeps
the film fresh."\[198\] , writing for *Hindustan Times*, rated it three
stars and said, "Leave aside jokes running on the Internet. This film,
just a few feet too long, is fine entertainment by itself."\[199\]

Malini Mannath of *The New Indian Express* noted 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 for having
"An engaging script, brilliant special effects, and a debonair hero who
still carries his charisma effortlessly."\[200\] Karthik Subramanian of
*The Hindu* observed that actors "tend to get lost in special effects
movies." Subramanian believed it was not the case in 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》:
"Rajinikanth and \[Aishwarya Rai\] carry the movie on their shoulders,
and considering the fact that much of the acting must have been in front
of green screens, one has to say that nothing looks artificial right
through."\[201\] In contrast, Gautaman Bhaskaran of *Hindustan Times*
rated it two out of five stars, writing that "Shankar's work slips into
a loud, overdramatic and exaggerated mess".\[202\]

#### 海外

《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 has received a rating of 67% on the [review
aggregator](../Page/汇总媒体.md "wikilink") website [Rotten
Tomatoes](../Page/爛番茄.md "wikilink"), based on twelve reviews, with an
average rating of 5.62/10.\[203\] Lisa Tsering from *[The Hollywood
Reporter](../Page/荷里活報道.md "wikilink")* said, "Rajinikanth is such a
badass that [Chuck Norris](../Page/查克·諾里斯.md "wikilink") is ."\[204\]
She praised the filming locations, especially the "Kilimanjaro" song
sequence, but criticised the length of the film's climax
portions.\[205\] Genevieve Koski from *The A. V. Club* believed that
《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was "pretty good" and concluded that "if you prefer
elaborate costumes and dance music mixed in with your killer-robot
action, expect to enjoy up to an hour of 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》."\[206\] Marc Savlov
of ** called 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 "the best apocalyptic
sci-fi-romcom-melodrama-dance-off date movie of the year."\[207\] Roger
Moore, writing for the **, gave a mixed review, evaluating it as a
"melodramatic kitschy Indian musical about a robot built for national
defense but who discovers his human side."\[208\]

Following the film's screening at the , American film director [Oliver
Stone](../Page/奧利華·史東.md "wikilink") praised 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》{{'s}}
originality.\[209\] Conversely,  of
*[Variety](../Page/綜藝_\(雜誌\).md "wikilink")* believed that
Shankar "riffs on everything" from *Frankenstein* to *The Terminator*,
but suggested that the film was an "overwhelming mash-up of
American-style, f/x-driven sci-fi spectacle and a Bollywood
musical."\[210\]

## 奖项及提名

At the , 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 won for  and .\[211\] It won in three categories at
the  for ,  and Best Costume Design.\[212\] At the , it was nominated in
fourteen categories and won in seven, including  and  for Rajinikanth,
and .\[213\] At the , the film won awards under the  and Spectacular
Cutting Edge Technology categories.\[214\]

## 遗产

In a personal appreciation letter to Shankar following the film's
release, the director  described Shankar as India's [James
Cameron](../Page/詹姆斯·卡梅隆.md "wikilink"), 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 as India's
*[Avatar](../Page/阿凡达.md "wikilink")* (2009) and Sun Pictures as India's
[Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer](../Page/米高梅.md "wikilink").\[215\] 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was
the only Tamil film featured on the [Internet Movie
Database](../Page/互联网电影资料库.md "wikilink") (IMDb) list of the
50 best films of 2010.\[216\] The film was also included as a case
study in a postgraduate elective course of the [Indian Institute of
Management Ahmedabad](../Page/印度管理研究所亞美達巴德分校.md "wikilink"),
"Contemporary Film Industry: A Business Perspective".\[217\]

Scenes from 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》, particularly one known as the "Black Sheep"
scene, have been parodied in subsequent films, including **
(2011),\[218\]\[219\] ** (2011),\[220\] ** (2013),\[221\] as well as in
the Telugu films ** (2011) and ** (2011).\[222\]\[223\] In the film,
Chitti often introduces himself by stating the [clock
rate](../Page/时钟频率.md "wikilink") of his [central processing
unit](../Page/中央处理器.md "wikilink"), which is 1 terahertz
(10<sup>12</sup> [hertz](../Page/赫兹.md "wikilink")), and his
[random-access memory](../Page/随机存取存储器.md "wikilink") limit, which is
1 zettabyte (10<sup>21</sup> [bytes](../Page/字节.md "wikilink")). This
introduction dialogue, which is spoken by Chitti as "Hi, I'm Chitti,
speed 1 terahertz, memory 1 zettabyte" became popular.\[224\]\[225\]
Rajinikanth featured in a cameo role as Chitti in the science-fiction
film ** (2011).\[226\]

On Rajinikanth's 64th birthday, an agency named Minimal Kollywood
Posters designed posters of Rajinikanth's films, in which the
[Minion](../Page/神偷奶爸系列电影.md "wikilink") characters from the
*[Despicable Me](../Page/神偷奶爸系列电影.md "wikilink")* franchise are dressed
as Rajinikanth.\[227\] The digital art was hand drawn on a digital pad
by Gautham Raj.\[228\] One of the posters depicted a mutated Minion,
reminiscent of Chitti's "villain robot" look in 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》.\[229\] In
March 2015, Kamath, in his review of the science fiction film
*[Chappie](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/成人世界 "wikilink")*, compared its
eponymous lead character to Chitti in terms of learning human
emotions.\[230\] [Joe
Russo](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/罗素兄弟 "wikilink"), who
co-directed *[Avengers: Infinity
War](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/復仇者聯盟3：無限之戰 "wikilink")*
(2018), said the sequence in 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 where numerous clones of Chitti
come together to form a giant snake inspired a similar scene in
*Infinity War*{{'}}s predecessor *[Age of
Ultron](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/復仇者聯盟2：奧創紀元 "wikilink")* (2015)
where the titular antagonist, [Ultron](../Page/奧創.md "wikilink") and his
clones come together to form a gigantic version of himself, but that the
scene was cut from the final version of the film to accommodate its
runtime.\[231\]\[232\]

## 续集

In September 2015, writer  announced that the pre-production stage of a
sequel to 《宝莱坞机器人之恋》 was "going on in full swing" and that principal
photography would commence once Rajinikanth finished filming for
*Kabali*, by the end of that year.\[233\]  would be the cinematographer
and A. R. Rahman would return as music director, while Muthuraj would
handle the art direction. The sequel would be shot in 3D, unlike its
predecessor which was shot in 2D and converted to 3D in
post-production.\[234\] Titled *2.0*, the film entered production in
December 2015 and was released on 29 November 2018. Rajinikanth reprised
his role as Vaseegaran and Chitti with the additional cast played by
[Akshay Kumar](../Page/阿克夏·庫馬.md "wikilink") and [Amy
Jackson](../Page/艾米·傑克森.md "wikilink").\[235\]\[236\]

## 注解

## 参考资料

## 延伸阅读

  -
## 外部链接

  -
  - [《宝莱坞机器人之恋》](http://www.boxofficemojo.com/movies/intl/?page=&view=bycountry&id=_fENDHIRAN01)
    at [Box Office
    Mojo](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Box_Office_Mojo "wikilink")

[Category:2010年電影](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:2010年電影 "wikilink")
[Category:2010年代科幻片](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:2010年代科幻片 "wikilink")
[Category:2010年代動作片](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:2010年代動作片 "wikilink")
[Category:仿生人電影](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:仿生人電影 "wikilink")
[Category:人工智能題材作品](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:人工智能題材作品 "wikilink")
[Category:2030年代背景电影](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:2030年代背景电影 "wikilink")
[Category:秘鲁取景电影](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:秘鲁取景电影 "wikilink")
[Category:印度電影作品](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:印度電影作品 "wikilink")
[Category:印度动作片](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:印度动作片 "wikilink")
[Category:機器人電影](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:機器人電影 "wikilink")
[Category:泰米尔语电影](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:泰米尔语电影 "wikilink")

1.

2.   Opening credits from 01:00 to 02:00.

3.

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.  Closing credits in 2:55:05.

14.
15.
16.
17.

18.

19.
20.

21.

22.

23.
24.

25.
26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.
32.
33.

34.

35.

36.

37.
38.

39.

40.

41.
42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.
49.

50.
51.

52.

53.

54.

55.
56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.
67.
68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.
75.

76.
77.

78.
79.

80.

81.
82.
83.
84.

85.
86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.
96.
97.

98.

99.
100.
101.
102.

103.

104.

105.

106.
107.

108.

109.
110.

111.
112.
113.
114.

115.

116.
117.
118.

119.
120.

121.
122.

123.

124.

125.
126.

127.
128.

129.

130.
131.

132.

133.

134.

135.

136.

137.

138.

139.

140.

141.
142.

143.
144.
145.

146.

147.
148.

149.
150.

151.

152.

153.

154.

155.

156.

157.

158.

159.

160.

161.

162.
163.

164.

165.

166.

167.
168.

169.

170.

171.

172.

173.

174.
175.

176.

177.

178.

179.

180.

181.

182.

183.

184.

185.

186.
187.

188.

189.

190.

191.

192.

193.

194.

195.
196.
197.

198.

199.

200.
201.

202.

203.

204.
205.

206.
207.

208.

209.

210.

211.

212.

213.

214.

215.

216.

217.
218.

219.

220.

221.

222.

223.

224.
225.

226.

227.
228.
229.

230.

231.

232.

233.

234.

235.

236.