3C Easy as a mobile phone maintenance & service platform, now supplies
standardized spare parts and accessories with certifications world
widely. 3C Easy also provide technical support, including maintenance
skill training and equipping franchisees with online management systems.
The logic of this platform is similar to Uber and Airbnb, which allocate
orders to drivers or house owners all around the world.

3C Easy Malaysia have determined to support mobile phone maintenance
stores all around the world to step further in their careers. 3C Easy
system enable all franchisees to control quality of their services from
the very basic –‘products’. While having comprehensive understanding of
the business line, franchisees can minimize cost of both product
procurement and business management. Meanwhile, 3C Easy technical
support centre assist all stores around the world with any possible
technical difficulty, from the most basic to the toughest. This centre
will also frequently update information about new models on the market,
providing accurate maintenance instructions over internet.

3C Easy adapts world leading Internet business model. The omni-channel
IT system increases potentials in both online and offline markets,
combining online appointment, online consultation and offline
maintenance on one platform. Orders from developed E-commerce platform,
independent maintenance technicians without physical stores and other
distribution channels will be allocated based on locations and grading.
This system supports franchisees to get more orders and higher profits.

At present, 3C Easy has over 7000 + authorized service stores which
covered mainland China, Hong Kong, and Southeast Asia (Vietnam,
Malaysia, Indonesia and other regions).

3C EASY In Malaysia provide mobile phone screen and battery replacement
services for top smartphone brands. Such as: Apple, Samsung, Huawei,
SONY, Xiaomi and HTC. In addition, we also provide the maintenance
service of Samsung tablet. Currently 3C EASY has two owned stores in
Perai, Megamal Pinang