> 本文内容由[Draft:一貫道](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:一貫道)转换而来。


**一貫道**為[中國](../Page/中國.md "wikilink")的[秘密宗教](../Page/中國秘密宗教.md "wikilink")，源出[先天道](../Page/先天道.md "wikilink")（[齋教](../Page/齋教.md "wikilink")先天派），19世紀末開始在[山東省一帶流傳](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/山東省 "wikilink")。1930、40年代時（尤其[日本佔領時期](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/日本侵華 "wikilink")），在東方後第十八代祖師[張天然](../Page/張天然.md "wikilink")（本名張光璧，1889－1947）的積極宣道下，一貫道在1911年[清帝國滅亡後的數千個救世運動中](../Page/清朝.md "wikilink")，成為最重要的救世團體（redemptive society）。勢力足與[中國國民黨](../Page/中國國民黨.md "wikilink")與[中國共產黨匹敵](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中國共產黨 "wikilink")。

1930年代初期，一貫道僅是山東一帶的地方信仰，僅有數千信眾。不過在張天然的領導下，他們積極傳教，終使該團體在1940年代的中國擁有數百萬信徒。1949年後，齋教系統的宗教被北京政府視為[異端](../Page/異端.md "wikilink")的[祕密結社](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/祕密結社 "wikilink")，因而大舉取締。不過，縱使在中國被禁，一貫道自1987年起即在[臺灣](../Page/臺灣.md "wikilink")獲得合法地位。2000年代初，中國政府也逐漸開放對一貫道的禁令，並默許其各組線返回中國傳教。

其教義具[末世论](../Page/末世论.md "wikilink")、[救贖論特色](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/救贖論 "wikilink")，認為信仰一貫道是獲得救贖的唯一方式，也鼓勵信眾宣道。Yiguandao is the worship of the source of the universal reality personified as the [Eternal Venerable Mother](../Page/無生老母.md "wikilink"), or the Splendid Highest Deity () as in other folk religions. The highest deity is the primordial energy of the universe, identified in Yiguandao thought with the [Tao](../Page/道.md "wikilink") in the *[wuji](../Page/無極.md "wikilink")* or "unlimited" state and with fire. The name used in contemporary Yiguandao scriptures is the "Infinite Mother" () and the "lantern of the Mother" ()—a flame representing the Mother—is the central focus of Yiguandao shrines.

## 信仰

### 明明上帝

Yiguandao focuses on the worship of the Infinite Mother (*Wujimu*), also known as the Eternal Venerable Mother (*[Wusheng Laomu](../Page/無生老母.md "wikilink")*), which is also a feature of other Chinese folk religions. It is the source of things, not female nor male, though it is called "mother" or "matrix". It is the primordial force of the universe, the fire, that animates all things. It is the Tao, as Yiguandao doctrines explain:

As the personification of the primordial force, a prototype of the Eternal Mother was given in the works of [Luo Qing](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luo_Qing "wikilink"). At first he used the concept of *Wuji* ("Unlimited") to refer to the origin of the universe, arguing that *Wuji* gives birth to heaven and earth and supports all things. Later Luo created a literary personification of the universal source, the "Holy Patriarch of the Great Void" (*Wuji Shengzu*).

In the 16th century the Eternal Mother began to take the place of the Holy Patriarch. A mythology surrounding the Mother began to form, integrating the beliefs about Maitreya, which had been widespread since the [Yuan dynasty](../Page/元朝.md "wikilink"). The Maitreya belief is millenarian, claiming that the world would come to an end soon and Maitreya would incarnate himself in the physical plane to save humanity.

In the Mother belief, the Maitreya is one of the three enlightened beings sent by the Mother herself to bring salvation. Further myths explained the creation of the world and mankind: the Eternal Venerable Mother gave birth to [yin and yang](../Page/阴阳.md "wikilink") and two children, [Fuxi](../Page/伏羲.md "wikilink") and [Nüwa](../Page/女娲.md "wikilink"), who begot auspicius stars and all sentient beings. The human beings were sent to the east and lost their memory of the Mother. The myth of Fuxi and Nüwa is found also in orthodox Chinese mythology.

The figure of the Eternal Mother derives from that of *[Xiwangmu](../Page/西王母.md "wikilink")*, the "Queen Mother of the West", the ancient mother goddess of China, related to the [mythical Kunlun](../Page/昆仑山_\(神话\).md "wikilink"), the , and thus to the [Hundun](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/混沌_\(神話生物\) "wikilink"). The Infinite Mother is thought as omnipotent, and regarded by Yiguandao followers as merciful, worried by her sons and daughters who lost their true nature, and for this reason trying to bring them back to the original heaven. Through its development, the Eternal Mother belief has shown the qualities of the three goddesses Xiwangmu, Nüwa and [Guanyin](../Page/觀世音菩薩.md "wikilink").

### 仙佛神聖與祖師

In a typical Yiguandao temple there are, just in front of the flame representing the Mother, Maitreya in the central position, accompanied by [Jigong](../Page/济公.md "wikilink"), Yuehui (or [Guanyin](../Page/觀世音菩薩.md "wikilink")), [Guangong](../Page/关羽.md "wikilink") and another deity of one's own choice. In addition, any deity from the Chinese tradition may have a position in the pantheon.

As Yiguandao written material explains:

The patriarchs of the faith are [Zhang Tianran](../Page/張天然.md "wikilink") and [Sun Suzhen](../Page/孫慧明.md "wikilink"). They are considered the final patriarchs of the divine revelation and are revered as divine entities.

### 宇宙觀

[Yiguandao_cosmology.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Yiguandao_cosmology.png "fig:Yiguandao_cosmology.png") Yiguandao conceives the cosmos as tripartite, consisting of *litian* (the right heaven), *qitian* (the spiritual heaven) and *xiangtian* (the material plane). *Litian* is the heaven of the Eternal Mother, where there's no cycle of rebirth; *qitian* is the plane imbued by the gods and spirits who despite being in a higher realm than human beings, can still incarnate as matter. *Xiangtian* is the physical world that is composed of all visible things, with colors and shapes, including all the stars and the sky. Only *litian* is eternal, and *qitian* and *xiangtian* will be re-absorbed into *litian*.

### 三期末劫論

Yiguandao involves an [eschatological](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/eschatology "wikilink")— [soteriological](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/soteriology "wikilink") belief: Grieving over the loss of her children, the Eternal Mother sent to the material world three enlightened beings over the "Three Eras". Accordingly, the human history is divided into "Three Eras": *Qingyang Qi* or Green Yang Era, *Hongyang Qi* or Red Yang Era, and *Baiyang Qi* or White Yang Era. [Dipankara Buddha](../Page/燃灯佛.md "wikilink") presided over salvation in the Green Yang Era, [Gautama Buddha](../Page/释迦牟尼.md "wikilink") in the Red Yang Era, and Maitreya Buddha will preside over the third period of salvation, the White Yang Era, which began in 1912 and continues even now.

Extreme ruthlessness and craftiness in human behaviour and disasters are associated with the end of the third period and final salvation. Cultivation of the [Tao](../Page/道.md "wikilink") is the opportunity for repentance and purification during the White Yang Era. Those who devote their efforts to the spread of the Tao will be repaid for their merits, regardless of their societal status.

## Practices and writings

### 三寶

The rite of initiation involves the "offering of the Three Treasures" (*chuan Sanbao*), which are the *xuanguan* (the heavenly portal), the *koujue* (a mantra), and *hetong* (the hand gesture). The Three Treasures are the saving grace offered by the Eternal Mother to people who received the initiation. They enable Yiguandao members to transcend the circle of birth and death and directly ascend to Heaven after they die.

Yiguandao followers regard the initiation ceremony as the most important ritual. The full meaning of the Three Treasures is a secret of Yiguandao followers and is strictly prohibited from being spread openly to those who have not gone through the initiation process. The Three Treasures are also used in daily life as a form of meditation.

### 一貫道藏

A unitary anthology of Yiguandao's writings, the *Yiguandao Canon* (一貫道藏 *Yīguàndào zàng*), was published in the 2010s with the purpose of offering a systematic overview of the religious doctrines.

## 歷史

### 19th century origins

Yiguandao originated in the late 19th century in [Shandong](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/山东省 "wikilink") as a branch of [Xiantiandao](../Page/先天道.md "wikilink") ("Way of Former Heaven"), which in turn was founded in [Jiangxi](../Page/江西省.md "wikilink") in the 17th century [Qing dynasty](../Page/清朝.md "wikilink") as an offshoot of the Venerable Officials' teaching of fasting (老官齋教 *Lǎoguān zhāijiào*), a branch of the Dacheng (大乘 "Great Vehicle") or Yuandun (圆顿 "Sudden Stillness") eastern proliferation of [Luoism](../Page/羅教.md "wikilink"). It has also been traced to the [White Lotus](../Page/白蓮教.md "wikilink") tradition.\[1\]\[2\]\[3\]

In the 1870s, under persecutions from the Qing, Xiantiandao fragmented into several independent groups. One branch led by the Shandong native [Wang Jueyi](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/王覺一 "wikilink") later developed into Yiguandao. According to Yiguandao records, Wang Jueyi was designated as the 15th patriarch of Xiantiandao through a divine revelation through writing. Wang renamed his sect the "Final Salvation" (*Mohou Yizhu*) and deeply contributed to the development of its theology and ritual, now being regarded as the real founder of modern Yiguandao.

After a persecution started in 1883 because the Qing suspected that the sect intended to organise a rebellion, Wang was forced to live secretly until his death. Liu Qingxu succeeded the leadership becoming the 16th patriarch. In 1905, borrowing a [Confucius](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/孔子 "wikilink") saying that "the way that I follow is the one that unifies all" (*wudao yiyiguanzhi*), he gave the religion the name *Yiguandao* ("Unity Way").

Under Liu the Yiguandao remained small. Things changed after [Lu Zhongyi](../Page/路中一.md "wikilink") became the 17th patriarch in 1919. Claiming to be the incarnation of Maitreya, Lu gathered thousands of members in Shandong. When Lu died in 1925 one group of the followers he left was led by Zhang Tianran, the man who became the 18th patriarch in following years.

### 1930年代張天然領導下的宣教

[Zhang_Tianran.PNG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Zhang_Tianran.PNG "fig:Zhang_Tianran.PNG") Between the late years of the Qing dynasty and 1945, China went through a period of crisis, civil unrest and foreign invasion. The Confucian orthodoxy and the empire crumbled quickly. In the [republican China between 1912 and 1949](../Page/中華民國_\(大陸時期\).md "wikilink") folk religious sects mushroomed and expanded rapidly.

Zhang Tianran, whose secular name was Zhang Guangbi, was born in 1889 in Jining, Shandong. In 1915, he was initiated into Yiguandao by Lu Zhongyi, the 17th patriarch of the sect. After the death of Lu in 1925 the movement fragmented due to strife over the leadership. One of the subgroups that formed was led by Zhang Tianran.

In 1930, Zhang Tianran became the 18th patriarch of Yiguandao. He took Sun Suzhen as his partner, proclaiming that their marriage was a message from the Eternal Mother, and that he was the incarnation of Jigong, a deified miracle monk that lived between the late 12th and the 13th century. However, few members welcomed the new claims; many challenged the validity of the revelation and left the group. For this reason, Zhang Tianran and his wife moved to [Jinan](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/济南市 "wikilink") in 1931. There, different religious groups were competing with each other, and Zhang Tianran began preaching Yiguandao himself.

Zhang Tianran recruited hundreds of followers, and Jinan became the main base of Yiguandao. Many initiated members began preaching in other big cities, where Yiguandao was well received. From 1934 Yiguandao missionaries were sent to [Tianjin](../Page/天津市.md "wikilink") and [Qingdao](../Page/青岛市.md "wikilink"). To facilitate the spread Zhang Tianran restructured Yiguandao, that since then had preserved the nine-levels structure (*jiupin liantai*) of Xiantiandao. The new structure had four levels, Zhang as the patriarch, and below him the leaders of the way (*daozhang*), the initiators (*dianchuan shi*), and further below the masters of the altars (*tanzhu*). The initiators functioned as missionaries, while the masters of altars were managers of administrative units composed of multiple congregations.

With the rapid growth of Yiguandao, Zhang Tianran's status as a divine patriarch (*shizun*) was strengthened, with a large number of pamphlets published to justify his divinity. The following one is an example:

### 扶乩、善書與儀式

[Ikuantaoist_oil_lamp.PNG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ikuantaoist_oil_lamp.PNG "fig:Ikuantaoist_oil_lamp.PNG") With its centralised authority and highly organised form, Yiguandao had an extraordinary power of mobilisation. At first, *[fuji](../Page/扶乩.md "wikilink")*, the practice of receiving direct revelations from the gods which is closely linked to the  tradition since the [Song dynasty](../Page/宋朝.md "wikilink"), contributed to the dynamism of the movement.

Divine revelations were published in "morality books" (*shanshu*), and distributed to the general public for moral edification of the society. Divine writing was also used to offer oracles for everyday problems.

*Fuji* was introduced into Yiguandao despite Wang Jueyi, the 15th patriarch of the lineage, discouraging it. Zhang Tianran distinguished between "innate writing" (*xiantian ji*), received by juvenile media and considered superior to "acquired writing" (*houtian ji*), received by old media. Youth purity is considered more conductive of divine revelation. Zhang emphasised that only Yiguandao *fuji* is *xiantian ji* (revealing the original Heaven).

Divinely inspired writing was later rejected by some branches of Yiguandao, as new scriptures produced new schisms, and gradually declined within the religion as a whole.

Yiguandao also spread and gathered financial support through the performance of "rituals of salvation of the ancestors". Rules and practices for the followers were also systematised. Zhang Tianran also gave much importance to aggressive missionary work, contrasting with the Chinese tradition of peaceful coexistence. In 1938 he held missionary workshops named "stove meetings" (*lu hui*) to train missionaries in Tianjin.Hundreds of missionaries were trained in these workshops, and they were sent all over the country. Many became influential leaders of Yiguandao.

### Rapid growth in the 1940s

Through missionary activity, in the political and social turmoil caused by the [Japanese invasion of China](../Page/中国抗日战争.md "wikilink") in the 1940s, that made Yiguandao's millenarian beliefs more convincing to the masses, the religion grew rapidly, reaching an estimated membership of 12 million. Even a number of top officials of the Japanese puppet government of [Wang Jingwei](../Page/汪精卫.md "wikilink") converted to Yiguandao.

### 1949年以後中國的鎮壓

With the rise of the Chinese Communist Party in 1949, Yiguandao was suppressed, being viewed as the biggest reactionary *huidaomen*. In December 1950 *The People's Daily* published the editorial "Firmly Banning Yiguandao" (*Jianjue Qudi Yiguandao*), proclaiming that the movement had been used as a counterrevolutionary tool by imperialists and the [Kuomintang](../Page/中國國民黨.md "wikilink"). The article claimed that Yiguandao members were traitors collaborating with the Japanese invaders, Kuomintang spies, and reactionary landlords.

The editorial marked the beginning of the country-wide campaign of eradication of Yiguandao. The main target of the campaign was to destroy the movement's organisation and leadership. The top leaders were executed or sent to prison, the members were forced to undergo political re-education and they were kept under close surveillance.

An exhibition denouncing Yiguandao was held in Beijing in January 1951. In 1952 the communists released "The Way of Persistently Harming People" (*Yiguan Hairen Dao*), a film against Yiguandao. A number of Yiguandao believers, including Sun Suzhen, fled to Hong Kong and later to Taiwan, where the religion currently thrives.

### 中國以外的傳播與回歸

[2014TIBE_Day6_Hall1_I-Kuan_Tao_20140210.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:2014TIBE_Day6_Hall1_I-Kuan_Tao_20140210.jpg "fig:2014TIBE_Day6_Hall1_I-Kuan_Tao_20140210.jpg").\]\] [The_Old_Town_Hall_14B_Orford_Road_Walthamstow_Village_London_E17_9LN.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:The_Old_Town_Hall_14B_Orford_Road_Walthamstow_Village_London_E17_9LN.jpg "fig:The_Old_Town_Hall_14B_Orford_Road_Walthamstow_Village_London_E17_9LN.jpg"), [London](../Page/伦敦.md "wikilink").\]\]

#### 臺灣

In Kuomintang-governed Taiwan after 1949, there was initially a climate of restrictions of Chinese traditional religions and Yiguandao was attacked as immoral, politically charged, and suspect of cooperation with communists of mainland China. Yiguandao was officially outlawed in 1952 and driven underground. The Buddhist circles of Taiwan actively participated in the demonisation of Yiguandao criticising it as heterodox "White Lotus" and called for its suppression, and succeeded in opposing the government when there was a proposal for lifting the ban in 1981.

In the period of rapid economic growth of Taiwan, starting in the 1960s and proceeding through the 1980s and 1990s, Yiguandao spread its influence by entering business and industrial development. Many members became important businessmen, for instance [Zhang Rongfa](../Page/張榮發.md "wikilink"), the founder of the [Evergreen Marine Corporation](../Page/長榮海運.md "wikilink"), was the chief initiator of a Yiguandao subdivision and in the 1990s almost all the managers of his corporation were Yiguandao members. The same strategy of "combining missionary work and business" facilitates the development of Yiguandao in mainland China, where Yiguandao businessmen began reestablishing the religion since the 1980s by means of investment. Another mean by which Yiguandao expanded in Taiwan was that of charity.

Through the years of the ban Yiguandao persisted as an underground phenomenon. In 1963 it was reported that the religion had about fifty thousand members, and grew rapidly through the 1970s and the 1980s, counting more than 324,000 members in 1984. Five years later in 1989 Yiguandao had 443.000 members or 2.2% of Taiwan's population. Recognising the social power of the religion, the Kuomintang officially gave Yiguandao legal status on 13 January 1987. As of 2005 Yiguandao has 810.000 members in Taiwan (3.5% of the population) and tens of thousands of worship halls. Its members operate many of Taiwan's vegetarian restaurants.

#### 朝鮮半島

Yiguandao was transmitted in the Korean peninsula (where its name is vocalised 일관도 *Ilgwando*) in the 1940s through the pioneering work of Dukbuk Lee, Sujeun Jang, Buckdang Kim and Eunsun Kim. Korean Ilgwando is incorporated as the International Moral Association which was founded in the 1960s by Buckdang Kim (1914-1991), and as of 2015 it has 1.3 million members in South Korea (2.5% of the population).

#### 日本

In the 1950s Yiguandao spread to Japan (where its name is *Ikkandō*), during the persecutions in mainland China, and there it has attracted about fifty thousand members from both Chinese minorities and Japanese ethnic groups. It is articulated into two main branches: ① *Kōmōseidōin* (孔孟聖道院 *Kǒng Mèng Shèngdào Yuàn*, "School of the Holy Way of Confucius and Mencius") and *Sentendaidōnihonsoōtendan* (先天大道日本総天壇 *Xiāntiāndàdào Rìběn Zǒng Tiāntán*, "Japan Headquarters of the Great Way of Former Heaven") with 8000 members each; and ② *Tendō* (天道 *Tiāndào*, "Heavenly Way") and *Tendo Sotendan* (天道総天壇 *Tiāndào Zǒng Tiāntán*, "Headquarters of the Heavenly Way") respectively with 300 and 30.000 members.\[4\]

#### 東南亞

Since the 1970s Yiguandao spread to Southeast Asia. In Thailand (where it is named อนุตตรธรรม *Anuttharatham*) it has grown so strong in recent decades to come into conflict with Buddhism; as of 2009 there were over 7000 worship halls, and it is reported that 200.000 Thais each year convert into the religion.\[5\] In Singapore the Yiguandao has three great public halls (white multiple-storied buildings with traditional Chinese architectural features) and more than 2000 house churches.\[6\]

#### 中國大陸

The relationship between the government of mainland China and Yiguandao began to change by the mid-1980s. In those years, Yiguandao was spreading secretly back to mainland China from Taiwan; entrepreneurs belonging to Yiguandao were building temples, networks and factories. According to scholar Philip Clart, missionaries from Taiwan have been particularly active in proselytisation in [Fujian](../Page/福建省.md "wikilink"), where there is strong presence of Taiwanese-owned companies and joint ventures.\[7\] According to a 1996 report the movement can be found in every province of China, and in 1978 there was one of the biggest cases of government suppression against the "Fraternal Army of the Soldiers of Heaven" (天兵弟子军 *Tiānbīng Dìzǐjūn*) formed by thousands of Yiguandao members.\[8\] As of 1999 the Japanese publication *Tokyo Sentaku* reported that there were 2 million Tiandao members in [Sichuan](../Page/四川省.md "wikilink"), equal to 2.4% of the province's population.\[9\]

In the 1990s backroom meetings between Chinese government officials and representatives of Yiguandao were held; by the mid-2000s these meetings had become public. Between 2000 and 2005 Yiguandao was removed from the Chinese government's official list of "evil cults", and branches of the organisation were tacitly allowed to return to China. Yiguandao also cooperates with academic and non-governmental organisations in mainland China.\[10\] In an attitude of growing interest for the movement on the mainland, by the 2010s a Yiguandao text was published in the People's Republic.

## Structure and schisms

Yiguandao is a collection of at least nineteen divisions (subsects). Generally all of them share the rule to not proselytise among members of other branches of the "golden line" of Yiguandao. Since the 1980s some denominations of Yiguandao have established a professionalised clergy.

The primary organisation unit of Yiguandao are local worship halls (佛堂 *fótáng*, literally "halls of awakening"). Although some of them may develop into elaborate complexes of public buildings, they are in most cases private house churches (the gatherings are held in private homes of Yiguandao members), a type of organism which provides Yiguandao the ability to blossom in the private sphere circumventing states' definitions and management of "religion".\[11\]

There are a number of divisions which are no longer considered to be part of Yiguandao; some of them are: the Miledadao founded by Wang Haode in 1982, the  founded by Lin Jixiong in 1984, the Holy Church of the Middle Flower (*Zhonghua Shengjiao*) founded by Ma Yongchang in 1980, the Guanyindao founded by Chen Huoguo in 1984, the Yuande Shentan founded by Wu Ruiyuan, and the Jiulian Shengdao founded by Lin Zhenhe in 1992.

## 參見

  -
  - [Caodaism](../Page/高臺教.md "wikilink")

## 註釋

## 腳註

## 參考書目

  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
  -   - List first published in:

  -
  -
  -
## 外部連結

  - [World Yiguandao Headquarters](http://www.with.org/)
  - [Australia Yiguandao Headquarters](http://www.tao.org.au/)
  - [Korea Ilgwando International Morality Association](http://www.ilgwando.org/)
  - [Taiwan Yiguandao Association](http://www.ikuantao.org.tw/)

[Category:一貫道](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:一貫道 "wikilink") [:Category:中國民間信仰](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中國民間信仰 "wikilink") [:Category:中国新兴宗教](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中国新兴宗教 "wikilink") [:Category:Religious syncretism](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Religious_syncretism "wikilink") [:Category:Religions that require vegetarianism](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Religions_that_require_vegetarianism "wikilink")

1.
2.  Topley, 2011. p. 211
3.  Ter Harr, 1999. pp. 16-59
4.  Ng Ka Shing. *[Yiguan Dao in Japan: A Case Study of a Chinese Religion in the Japanese Settings](http://www.gakkai.ne.jp/jss/research/86/406.pdf)*.
5.  Yusheng Lin. *[Yiguandao and Buddhism in Thailand](http://www.iasu.kyoto-u.ac.jp/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/lin-en1.pdf)*. 2015.
6.
7.  Australian Government Refugee Review Trubunal: [CHN32439 – China – Yiguandao](http://www.refworld.org/pdfid/4b6fe1950.pdf) 2007 report.
8.  Thom Beal. *[China cracks down on rural cults](http://tibet.ca/en/library/wtn/archive/old?y=1996&m=6&p=11_1)*. World Tibet Network News, Tuesday, June 11, 1996.
9.  *Tokyo Sentaku* \[in Japanese\]. 1 June 1999. "Cult Groups Seen Shaking Party Leadership" (FBIS-CHI-1999-0614 1 June 1999/WNC). Cited in: ecoi.net, *[The Tian Dao (Yi Guan Dao, Yiguandao, Yi Guandao) sect and treatment of believers by the authorities](https://www.ecoi.net/local_link/171890/288221_de.html)*. \[CHN32887.E\] \[ID 171890\].
10.
11. Francis Lim Khek Gee. *[The Eternal Mother and the State: Circumventing Religious Management in Singapore](http://www.ari.nus.edu.sg/wps/wps11_161.pdf)*. Asia Research Institute, *Working Paper No. 161*, August 2011.