> 本文内容由[Draft:子宮內膜異位症/3](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:子宮內膜異位症/3)转换而来。


## Pathophysiology

## 病理生理學

Laparoscopic image of endometriotic lesions at the peritoneum of the pelvic wall 位於骨盆底層的[腹膜中的子宮內膜病灶](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/腹膜 "wikilink")[腹腔鏡影像](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/腹腔鏡 "wikilink")

While the exact cause of endometriosis remains unknown, many theories have been presented to better understand and explain its development. These concepts do not necessarily exclude each other. The pathophysiology of endometriosis is likely to be multifactorial and to involve an interplay between several factors.

在疾病成因釐清之前，曾發展出許多理論以便於理解和解釋，這些觀念之間彼此各有重疊之處。此症的病理生理學傾向於容納多元因素，廣納許多因子，相互影響。

### Formation

The main theories for the formation of the ectopic endometrium are retrograde menstruation, Müllerianosis, coelomic metaplasia and transplantation, each further described below.

### 形成

異位子宮內膜的形成理論中，主要幾種為月經逆流、苗勒上皮異位症、體腔化生和移植，以下分別介紹。

#### Retrograde menstruation theory

The theory of retrograde menstruation (also called the *implantation theory* or *transplantation theory*) is the oldest theory for the formation of ectopic endometrium in endometriosis. It suggests that during a woman's menstrual flow, some of the endometrial debris flow backwards through the Fallopian tubes and into the peritoneal cavity, attaching itself to the peritoneal surface (the lining of the abdominal cavity) where it can proceed to invade the tissue as endometriosis.

#### 月經逆行理論

在子宮內膜異位症中，形成異位子宮內膜最早的理論就是月經逆行理論，也稱*植入理論*或是*移植理論*。「月經逆行理論」認為，患者在[月經中的部分碎片倒流](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/經期 "wikilink")，經過了卵管和腹腔，沾黏在腹膜表面，也就是腹腔的表面，然後進犯組織，造成異位子宮內膜。

Retrograde menstruation alone is not able to explain all instances of endometriosis, and additional factors such as genetic or immune differences need to be invoked to account for the fact that many women with retrograde menstruation do not have endometriosis. In addition, endometriosis has shown up in people who have never experienced menstruation including men, fetuses, and prepubescent girls. Further detracting from the retrograde menstruation theory are cases of endometriosis showing up in the brain and lungs. This theory has numerous other associated issues.

單靠「月經逆行理論」並不能為所有異位子宮內膜病例提供解釋；許多發生月經逆行的女性並沒有罹患異位子宮內膜，其他的加成因素如基因或免疫上的差異，也需要為這些事證提供解釋。加上有些患者甚至是男性、胎兒和青春期前的女孩，他們都沒有經期；進一步降低此理論說服力的，還有病例的病灶出現於腦部及肺部。月經逆行理論有許多漏洞。

Researchers are investigating the possibility that the immune system may not be able to cope with the cyclic onslaught of retrograde menstrual fluid. In this context there is interest in studying the relationship of endometriosis to autoimmune disease, allergic reactions, and the impact of toxic materials. It is still unclear what, if any, causal relationship exists between toxic materials, autoimmune disease, and endometriosis. There are immune system changes in women with endometriosis, such as an increase of macrophage-derived secretion products, but it is unknown if these are contributing to the disorder or are reactions from it.

研究學者現正釐清，免疫系統是否未跟逆行的月經流體週期性爆發同步。在這部分，有一派正在注意研究異位子宮內膜和自體免疫系統、過敏反應和有毒物質影響的關聯，目前尚未釐清有毒物質、自體免疫系統疾病及異位子宮內膜之間有任何相關。異位子宮內膜女性患者的免疫系統有所蓋變，像是來自巨噬細胞的分泌物增加，但是仍不清楚是否導致此病或是跟此病有所連動。

In addition, at least one study found that endometriotic lesions differ in their biochemistry from artificially transplanted ectopic tissue. This is likely because the cells that give rise to endometriosis are a side population of cells. Similarly, there are changes in for example the mesothelium of the peritoneum in women with endometriosis, such as loss of tight junctions, but it is unknown if these are causes or effects of the disorder.

然而至少有一份研究發現，異位子宮內膜的病灶所在，跟人工移植的異位組織的生物化學有所不同，很可能是因為導致異位子宮內膜的細胞是側群細胞；無獨有偶，也有像是異位子宮內膜女性患者腹膜的中皮層的變化，如緊密連結流失；但仍難定論究竟是病因還是患病所致。

In rare cases where imperforate hymen does not resolve itself prior to the first menstrual cycle and goes undetected, blood and endometrium are trapped within the uterus of the woman until such time as the problem is resolved by surgical incision. Many health care practitioners never encounter this defect, and due to the flu-like symptoms it is often misdiagnosed or overlooked until multiple menstrual cycles have passed. By the time a correct diagnosis has been made, endometrium and other fluids have filled the uterus and Fallopian tubes with results similar to retrograde menstruation resulting in endometriosis. The initial stage of endometriosis may vary based on the time elapsed between onset and surgical procedure.<sup>\[*citation needed*\]</sup>

在極少數的病例中，無孔處女膜並沒辦法解決第一次月經週期事前和避免遭檢出，

The theory of retrograde menstruation as a cause of endometriosis was first proposed by John A. Sampson.

#### Other theories

  - Stem cells: Endometriosis may arise from stem cells from bone marrow and potentially other sources. In particular, this theory explains endometriosis found in areas remote from the pelvis such as the brain or lungs.
  - Environment: Environmental toxins (e.g., dioxin, nickel) may cause endometriosis.
  - Müllerianosis: A theory supported by foetal autopsy is that cells with the potential to become endometrial, which are laid down in tracts during embryonic development called the female reproductive (Müllerian) tract as it migrates downward at 8–10 weeks of embryonic life, could become dislocated from the migrating uterus and act like seeds or stem cells.
  - Coelomic metaplasia: Coelomic cells which are the common ancestor of endometrial and peritoneal cells may undergo metaplasia (transformation) from one type of cell to the other, perhaps triggered by inflammation.
  - Vasculogenesis: Up to 37% of the microvascular endothelium of ectopic endometrial tissue originates from endothelial progenitor cells, which result in *de novo* formation of microvessels by the process of vasculogenesis rather than the conventional process of angiogenesis.<sup>\[*clarification needed*\]</sup>
  - Neural growth: An increased expression of new nerve fibres is found in endometriosis but does not fully explain the formation of ectopic endometrial tissue and is not definitely correlated with the amount of perceived pain.<sup>\[*clarification needed*\]</sup>
  - Autoimmune: Graves disease is an autoimmune disease characterized by hyperthyroidism, goiter, ophthalmopathy, and dermopathy. Women with endometriosis had higher rates of Graves disease. One of these potential links between Graves disease and endometriosis is autoimmunity.
  - Oxidative stress: Influx of Iron is associated with the local destruction of the peritoneal mesothelium, leading to the adhesion of ectopic endometrial cells. Peritoneal iron overload has been suggested to be caused by the destruction of erythrocytes, which contain the iron-binding protein hemoglobin, or a deficiency in the peritoneal iron metabolism system. Oxidative stress activity and reactive oxygen species (such as superoxide anions and peroxide levels) are reported to be higher than normal in people with endometriosis. Oxidative stress and the presence of excess ROS can damage tissue and induce rapid cellular division. Mechanistically, there are several cellular pathways by which oxidative stress may lead to or may induce proliferation of endometriotic lesions, including the mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway and the extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) pathway. Activation of both of the MAP and ERK pathways lead to increased levels of c-Fos and c-Jun, which are proto-oncogenes that are associated with high-grade lesions.

### Localization

Possible locations of endometriosis

Most often, endometriosis is found on the:

  - ovaries
  - fallopian tubes
  - tissues that hold the uterus in place (ligaments)
  - outer surface of the uterus

Less common sites are:

  - vagina
  - cervix
  - vulva
  - bowel
  - bladder
  - rectum

Rarely, endometriosis appears in other parts of the body, such as the lungs, brain, and skin.

Rectovaginal or bowel endometriosis affects approximately 5-12% of women with endometriosis, and can cause severe pain with bowel movements.

Endometriosis may spread to the cervix and vagina or to sites of a surgical abdominal incision, known as "scar endometriosis." Risk factors for scar endometriosis include previous abdominal surgeries, such as a hysterotomy or cesarean section, or ectopic pregnancies, salpingostomy puerperal sterilization, laparoscopy, amniocentesis, appendectomy, episiotomy, vaginal hysterectomies, and hernia repair.

Endometriosis may also present with skin lesions in cutaneous endometriosis.

Less commonly lesions can be found on the diaphragm. Diaphragmatic endometriosis is rare, almost always on the right hemidiaphragm, and may inflict the cyclic pain of the right shoulder just before and during a menstrual period. Rarely, endometriosis can be extraperitoneal and is found in the lungs and CNS.