> 本文内容由[Draft:子宮內膜異位症/1](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:子宮內膜異位症/1)转换而来。


## 診斷

[Douglas_endometriose.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Douglas_endometriose.jpg "fig:Douglas_endometriose.jpg")\]\] 病史詢問及理學檢查可以協助醫療照護者進行子宮內膜異位症的診斷。目前診斷子宮內膜異位症的標準診斷為診斷性手術，非侵入性檢查的優缺點尚不明朗\[1\]。在英國，婦女從因症狀首次求診到真正確診平均約需7.5年\[2\]。

### 腹腔鏡

[Endometrioma.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Endometrioma.jpg "fig:Endometrioma.jpg") as distinguished from other types of [ovarian cysts](../Page/卵巢囊腫.md "wikilink") by a somewhat grainy and not completely [anechoic](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/消音室 "wikilink") content\]\] [腹腔鏡是一種藉由影像技術探視腹腔內情況的外科手術](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/腹腔鏡 "wikilink")，是目前唯一確診子宮內膜異位症的方法\[3\]。有些內膜異位症的位置會暴露到體表之外，例如說位於陰道的子宮內膜結節。若無暴露到體表位置，則可以使用\[4\]。

腹腔鏡可以看到

If the growths (lesions) are not visible, a [biopsy](../Page/活體組織切片.md "wikilink") may be taken to determine the diagnosis.\[5\] Surgery for diagnoses also allows for surgical treatment of endometriosis at the same time.

During a laparoscopic procedure lesions can appear dark blue, powder-burn black, red, white, yellow, brown or non-pigmented. Lesions vary in size.\[6\] Some within the pelvis walls may not be visible, as normal-appearing peritoneum of infertile women reveals endometriosis on biopsy in 6–13% of cases.\[7\] Early endometriosis typically occurs on the surfaces of organs in the pelvic and intra-abdominal areas.\[8\] Health care providers may call areas of endometriosis by different names, such as implants, lesions, or nodules. Larger lesions may be seen within the ovaries as [endometriomas](../Page/子宮內膜異位瘤.md "wikilink") or "chocolate cysts", "chocolate" because they contain a thick brownish fluid, mostly old blood.\[9\]

Frequently during diagnostic , no lesions are found in women with chronic pelvic pain, a symptom common to other disorders including [adenomyosis](../Page/子宫腺肌病.md "wikilink"), pelvic adhesions, [pelvic inflammatory disease](../Page/骨盆腔發炎.md "wikilink"), [congenital anomalies](../Page/先天性障碍.md "wikilink") of the [reproductive tract](../Page/生殖系统.md "wikilink"), and ovarian or tubal masses.\[10\]

### 超音波

Use of pelvic ultrasound may identify large endometriotic cysts (called [endometriomas](../Page/子宮內膜異位瘤.md "wikilink")). However, smaller endometriosis implants cannot be visualized with ultrasound technique.\[11\]

Vaginal ultrasound has a clinical value in the diagnosis of endometrioma and before operating for deep endometriosis.\[12\] This applies to the identification of the spread of disease in women with well-established clinical suspicion of endometriosis.\[13\] Vaginal ultrasound is inexpensive, easily accessible, has no contraindications and requires no preparation.\[14\] Healthcare professionals conducting ultrasound examinations need to be experienced.\[15\] By extending the ultrasound assessment into the posterior and anterior pelvic compartments the sonographer is able to evaluate structural mobility and look for deep infiltrating endometriotic nodules noting the size, location and distance from the anus if applicable.\[16\] An improvement in sonographic detection of deep infiltrating endometriosis will not only reduce the number of diagnostic laparoscopies, it will guide management and enhance quality of life.\[17\]

### 核磁共振

Use of MRIs is another method to detect lesions in a non-invasive manner.\[18\] MRI is not widely used due to its cost and limited availability, however, it has the ability to detect deep and small endometriotic lesions.\[19\]

1.
2.   Endometriosis UK|website=endometriosis-uk.org|access-date=2018-06-13}}
3.
4.
5.  Office on Women’s Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (16 July 2012). Endometriosis Fact Sheet. Retrieved from Womenshealth.gov
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.