> 本文内容由[Draft:拜占庭元老院](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:拜占庭元老院)转换而来。


[Theodorus_Philoxenus_Sotericus_A_02c.JPG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Theodorus_Philoxenus_Sotericus_A_02c.JPG "fig:Theodorus_Philoxenus_Sotericus_A_02c.JPG") **拜占庭元老院**或**东罗马元老院**（或）是[羅馬元老院](../Page/羅馬元老院.md "wikilink")的延续，其在4世纪由[君士坦丁一世建立](../Page/君士坦丁大帝.md "wikilink")，并一直存续了很多个世纪。尽管理论上具有的权力有限，元老院仍旧变得越来越无关紧要，直到约14世纪最终消失。

[东罗马帝国元老院最初由住在帝国东部或是想要移居](../Page/拜占庭帝国.md "wikilink")[君士坦丁堡](../Page/君士坦丁堡.md "wikilink")的罗马元老组成，还有其他一部分被任命为元老的官员。君士坦丁向愿意搬到东方的任何罗马元老提供免费的土地和谷物。在君士坦丁建立东部的元老院时，它更像一些重要城市如[安条克](../Page/安条克.md "wikilink")的议会而非罗马元老院。其子[君士坦提烏斯二世将其从市政当局提升为帝国机构的地位](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/君士坦提烏斯二世 "wikilink")，但是君士坦丁堡元老院实质上拥有的权力和罗马的元老院同样有限。君士坦提乌斯二世还将自己的朋友、朝臣以及许多行省官员选拔进元老院，使元老数目达到了两千人。

## Admission and composition

The traditional principles that senatorial rank was hereditary and that the normal way of becoming a member of the Senate itself was by holding a magistracy still remained in full force.\[1\] By the time of the permanent division of the [Roman Empire](../Page/羅馬帝國.md "wikilink") in 395, praetors' responsibilities had been reduced to a purely municipal role.\[2\] Their sole duty was to manage the spending of money on the exhibition of games or on public works. However, with the decline of the other traditional Roman offices such as that of [tribune](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/護民官 "wikilink") the praetorship remained an important portal through which aristocrats could gain access to either the [Western](../Page/羅馬元老院.md "wikilink") or Eastern Senates. The praetorship was a costly position to hold as praetors were expected to possess a treasury from which they could draw funds for their municipal duties. There are known to have been eight praetors in the [Eastern Roman Empire](../Page/拜占庭帝国.md "wikilink") who shared the financial burden between them. The late Eastern Roman Senate was very different from the Republican Senate as the offices of [aedile](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/市政官 "wikilink") and [tribune](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/護民官 "wikilink") had long fallen into  and by the end of the 4th century the [quaestorship](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/財務官 "wikilink") was on the point of disappearing, save as a provincial magistrate.\[3\] The emperor or the Senate itself could also issue a decree to grant a man not born into the senatorial order a seat in the Senate. Exemption from the expensive position of praetor would also often be conferred on such persons that had become senators in this way.

[Flavius_Anastasius_Probus_01b.JPG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flavius_Anastasius_Probus_01b.JPG "fig:Flavius_Anastasius_Probus_01b.JPG") , from his consular diptych, 517 AD. He holds a consular scepter topped by an eagle and the *mappa*, a piece of cloth that was thrown to signify the start of the Hippodrome races that marked the beginning of a consulship\]\]

The Senate was mostly composed of statesmen and officials, ranging from the most important statesmen in the Empire such as the  and the  to provincial governors and retired civil servants. The senatorial families in Constantinople tended to be less affluent and less distinguished than those in the West (where the size of the Senate had also been increased to 2,000 in the 4th century). Some aristocrats attempted to become senators in order to escape the difficult conditions that were imposed on them by late Roman emperors such as [Diocletian](../Page/戴克里先.md "wikilink") (r. 284-305 AD). The ** (Roman middle class) were often forced to become  where they were charged with participating in local government at their own expense as well as having to collect taxes and pay any deficits from their own pockets. As it was recognised that many who sought seats in the Senate were doing so primarily to escape the harsh duties of the decurion [Theodosius I](../Page/狄奧多西一世.md "wikilink") decreed that they must complete their public service even if they became Senators.

The Senate was led by the  (Constantinople), who conducted all of its communications with the emperor. It was composed of three orders, the **, ** and **. The members of the *illustres* were those who held the highest offices in Eastern Rome, such as the Master of Soldiers and Praetorian Prefects. The *spectabiles* formed the middle class of the Senate and consisted of important statesmen such as [proconsuls](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/资深执政官 "wikilink"),  and military governors of the provinces. The *clarissimi* was the lower class of the senate and was attached to the governors of the provinces and to other lesser posts. Members of the lower two orders were permitted to live anywhere within the Empire and were generally inactive senators. The majority of active members in the Senate were the *illustres*, whose important offices were usually based in Constantinople and so were able to attend the Senate frequently. By the end of the 5th century the two lower classes were completely excluded from sitting in the Senate. During the reign of [Justinian I](../Page/查士丁尼一世.md "wikilink") the numbers of *clarissimi* were significantly increased which caused many officials to be promoted to the rank of *spectabiles* and this in turn caused there to be an increase of the numbers of *illustres*, which had previously been the elite class of the Senate. As a result, a new order, the **, was created to accommodate the highest ranking senators. It is important to note that being a Senator was generally a secondary career for most of the Senate's members, who usually possessed important positions within the administrative machinery of the Empire.

## Powers and functions

[Leo2-coin.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Leo2-coin.jpg "fig:Leo2-coin.jpg"). The emperor is coined as "Saviour of the [Republic](../Page/罗马共和国.md "wikilink")" — which the Empire continued to be in theory.\]\]

Whilst the powers of the Senate were limited, it could pass resolutions (*senatus consulta*) which the Emperor might adopt and issue in the form of [edicts](../Page/詔令文書.md "wikilink"). It could thus suggest Imperial legislation, and it acted from time to time as a consultative body. Some Imperial laws took the form of 'Orations to the Senate', and were read aloud before the body. The [Western Roman Emperor](../Page/羅馬皇帝.md "wikilink"), [Valentinian III](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/瓦伦丁尼安三世 "wikilink"), in 446, formulated a legislative procedure which granted to the Senate the right of co-operation, where any new law was to be discussed at a meeting between the Senate and the Council before being confirmed by the emperor. This procedure was included in Justinian's code although it is unclear whether it was fully adopted in the East. In addition the Emperor would use the Senate as a judicial court, and trials for high treason were sometimes referred to it. Ordinary crimes would also often be judged by a court consisting of the Prefect of the City and five Senators chosen by lot. The Senate also maintained constitutional significance in that officially emperors were to be chosen by the military and the Senate, although succession was almost always hereditary.

## Confrontations with the emperor

[Revolt_of_the_Heraclii_solidus,_608_AD.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Revolt_of_the_Heraclii_solidus,_608_AD.jpg "fig:Revolt_of_the_Heraclii_solidus,_608_AD.jpg")'' of the two Heraclii in consular robes, struck during their revolt against Phocas in 608\]\] There were incidents when the Senate confronted the emperor and attempted to assert authority on the basis of their constitutional importance regarding the succession of an Emperor. In 457 they offered to enthrone the Master of Soldiers, the [Alan](../Page/奄蔡.md "wikilink") , but the tribune and senator [Leo I](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/利奥一世_\(拜占庭\) "wikilink"), who was Aspar's subordinate, became emperor instead. In 532, some of the Senators gave their support to the [Nika rioters](../Page/尼卡暴动.md "wikilink") against Justinian I, who did not like or trust the wealthy Senate. After 541, the Senate lost many of its members due to a [plague pandemic](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/查士丁尼大瘟疫 "wikilink") and during the ensuing economic turmoil, Justinian confiscated the wealth of many of the remaining senators. In 608 during the rule of [Phocas](../Page/福卡斯.md "wikilink"),  and his son [Heraclius](../Page/希拉克略.md "wikilink") were declared consuls with the backing of Senate members in Carthage. Heraclius later was elected emperor. Previous emperor Phocas was deposed by the Senate and arrested in a church by two senators.\[4\]

When Emperor Heraclius died in 641, he left the Empire to be ruled by two of his sons: [Constantine III](../Page/君士坦丁三世.md "wikilink") from his first marriage with  and [Heraklonas](../Page/赫拉克洛纳斯.md "wikilink") from his second marriage with . Empress Martina demanded imperial power for herself (although most likely with intended favor for her son), and declared this in a grand ceremony held in the [Hippodrome of Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡競技場.md "wikilink") which was attended by the Senate, other high officials and people of Constantinople. Opinion of the Senate and the people being strongly against her, wanting Heraclius' sons to rule, Martina was forced to return to the [Great Palace of Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡大皇宮.md "wikilink") in defeat. However, Constantine died only four months later, leaving his half-brother Heraklonas as sole ruler, and rumours of Martina having assassinated him started to spread. Soon afterwards, a revolt led by general of the army named  began, and Heraklonas was forced to accept his young nephew [Constans II](../Page/君士坦斯二世.md "wikilink"), son of Constantine, as co-ruler. As a part of the negotiations,  brother of Heraklonas was also crowned as co-emperor. This, however, did not ease the discontent among the Senate and the people, and soon the Senate deposed Heraklonas. His , Martina's tongue cut out and they were exiled to [Rhodes](../Page/罗得岛.md "wikilink"). Constans II became sole emperor, under the regency of the Senate.

## Decline

[Empress_Theodora_confers_with_the_Senate.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Empress_Theodora_confers_with_the_Senate.jpg "fig:Empress_Theodora_confers_with_the_Senate.jpg") The Senate's power was gradually reduced over the course of history, although it still existed into the 13th century. From the seventh century on, it could be said that it was less of an institution than a class of dignitaries,\[5\] as many of its remaining powers as a body were removed under legal reforms by the emperors [Basil I](../Page/巴西尔一世.md "wikilink") and [Leo VI](../Page/利奥六世_\(拜占庭\).md "wikilink"). The Senate itself retained considerable prestige, especially in the 11th century when the "court party" came to power following the death of Basil II. With the final triumph of the military faction on the accession of Alexius I Comnenus the Senate began to fade into irrelevance and the title of senator could be bought from the emperor. In 1197 the Senate was assembled—along with the clergy and guildsmen of the capital—to approve a special tax, the . The senators refused to be assessed for the tax, as it was contrary to custom, and the emperor was forced to tax the provinces and exempt the capital.\[6\] The Senate's last known act was to elect  as emperor in opposition to [Isaac II](../Page/伊萨克二世·安格洛斯.md "wikilink") and [Alexius IV](../Page/阿历克塞四世.md "wikilink") during the [Fourth Crusade](../Page/第四次十字军东征.md "wikilink").\[7\] Under the [Palaeologus dynasty](../Page/巴列奥略王朝.md "wikilink") the title of senator survived for a time, but in the crises of the mid 14th century the ancient office finally vanished for good.

## Senate houses

There were two Senate houses in Constantinople; one, built by Constantine and restored by Justinian, was on the east side of the [Augustaion](../Page/奥古斯塔广场.md "wikilink"), close to the Imperial Palace, at , whilst the other was on the north side of the [Forum of Constantine](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/君士坦丁广场 "wikilink"). The Senate lost its houses in the 6th century and from then on assembled in the Great Palace of Constantinople.

## References

## Further reading

  - . *History of the Later Roman Empire*, Volume 1.

[Category:拜占庭帝国政府机构](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:拜占庭帝国政府机构 "wikilink") [Category:历史上的立法机构](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:历史上的立法机构 "wikilink") [Category:罗马元老院](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:罗马元老院 "wikilink")

1.  . *History of the Later Roman Empire*, Volume 1, Chapter 1.
2.
3.
4.  [Judith Herrin. *The Formation of Christendom*. Princeton University Press, 1987](http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/med/herrin.html).
5.  Gilbert Dagron, *Emperor and Priest: The Imperial Office in Byzantium*. Cambridge University Press, , page 324
6.
7.  Phillips, Jonathan. *The Fourth Crusade and the Siege of Constantinople*. 2004. pp. 222-226.