> 本文内容由[Draft:撒旦](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:撒旦)转换而来。


### 撒旦

[Satan](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satan "wikilink"), formerly called [Lucifer](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucifer "wikilink"), is the first major character introduced in the poem. He was once the most beautiful of all angels, and is a tragic figure who famously declares: "Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven." Following his failed [rebellion](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_in_Heaven "wikilink") against [God](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/God_in_Christianity "wikilink"), he is cast out from Heaven and condemned to Hell. Satan's desire to rebel against his creator stems from his unwillingness to be subjugated by God and his Son, claiming that angels are "self-begot, self-raised,"\[1\] and thereby denying God's authority over them as their creator.

[撒旦](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/撒旦 "wikilink")，舊名[路西法](../Page/路西法.md "wikilink")，是失樂園中第一個出現的角色。撒旦曾是眾天使中最為俊美的一位，同時他也是位悲慘的角色，撒旦發表了著名的宣言：「寧可於地獄為王也不願於天堂為奴，」他起身反叛上帝，失敗後他被逐出天堂並譴入地獄。撒旦反叛乃因其不願臣服於神與神之子，他宣稱眾天使乃是憑空誕生（self-begot）且獨力成人（self-raised），他拒絕承認神是眾天使的創造者。

Satan is deeply arrogant, albeit powerful and [charismatic](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/charism "wikilink"). Satan's persuasive powers are evident throughout the book; not only is he cunning and deceptive, but he is also able to rally the fallen angels to continue in the rebellion after their agonizing defeat in the Angelic War. He argues that God rules as a tyrant and that all the angels ought to rule as gods.\[2\] Though commonly understood to be the antagonizing force in *Paradise Lost*, Satan may be best defined as a tragic or Hellenic hero. According to William McCollom, one quality of the classical tragic hero is that he is not perfectly good and that his defeat is caused by a tragic flaw, as Satan causes both the downfall of man and the eternal damnation of his fellow fallen angels despite his dedication to his comrades. In addition, Satan's Hellenic qualities, such as his immense courage and, perhaps, lack of completely defined morals compound his tragic nature.\[3\]

儘管撒旦強大的力量乃是聖靈賜予的，他卻極度自大。撒旦在書中也表現出了過人的說服力，他虛偽狡猾，儘管墮落天使在天堂之役中痛苦地慘敗，他還是能夠說服他們團結起來再次反叛。他指稱上帝統治的方式與暴君無異，眾天使應當和上帝享有同樣的權力，而非被其統治。

Satan's status as a protagonist in the epic poem is debated. Milton characterizes him as such, but Satan lacks several key traits that would otherwise make him the definitive protagonist in the work. One deciding factor that insinuates his role as the protagonist in the story is that most often a protagonist is heavily characterized and far better described than the other characters, and the way the character is written is meant to make him seem more interesting or special to the reader.\[4\] For that matter, Satan is both well described and is depicted as being quite versatile in that he is shown as having the capacity to do evil while retaining his characteristic sympathetic qualities and thus it is this complex and relatable nature that makes him a likely candidate for the story's overarching protagonist.\[5\]

By some definitions a protagonist must be able to exist in and of himself or herself and the secondary characters in the work exist only to further the plot for the protagonist.\[6\] Because Satan does not exist solely for himself, as without God he would not have a role to play in the story, he may not be viewed as the protagonist because of the continual shifts in perspective and relative importance of characters in each book of the work. Satan's existence in the story involves his rebellion against God and his determination to corrupt the beings he creates in order to perpetuate evil so that there can be a discernable balance and justice for both himself and his fallen angels. Therefore, it is more probable that he exists in order to combat God, making his status as the definitive protagonist of the work relative to each book. Following this logic, Satan may very well be considered as an antagonist in the poem, whereas God could be considered as the protagonist instead.

Satan's status as a traditional hero in the work is similarly up to debate as the term "hero" evokes different meanings depending on the time and the person giving the definition and is thus a matter of contention within the text. According to Aristotle, a hero is someone who is "superhuman, godlike, and divine" but is also human.\[7\] A hero would have to either be a human with God-like powers or the offspring of God. While Milton gives reason to believe that Satan is superhuman, as he was originally an angel, he is anything but human. Therefore, according to Aristotle's definition of a hero alone, Satan is not a hero. [Torquato Tasso](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torquato_Tasso "wikilink") and [Francesco Piccolomini](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francesco_Piccolomini "wikilink") expanded on Aristotle's definition and declared that for someone to be considered heroic one has to be perfectly or overly virtuous.\[8\] Satan repeatedly demonstrates a lack of virtue throughout the story as he intends to tempt God's creations with evil in order to destroy the good God is trying to create. Satan goes against God's law and therefore becomes corrupt and lacking of virtue and, as Piccolomini warned, "vice may be mistaken for heroic virtue."\[9\] Satan is very devoted to his cause, although that cause is evil but he strives to spin his sinister aspirations to appear as good ones. Satan achieves this end multiple times throughout the text as he riles up his band of fallen angels during his speech by deliberately telling them to do evil to explain God's hypocrisy and again during his entreaty to Eve. He makes his intentions seem pure and positive even when they are rooted in evil and, according to Steadman, this is the chief reason that readers often mistake Satan as a hero.\[10\]

Although Satan's army inevitably loses the war against God, Satan achieves a position of power and begins his reign in Hell with his band of loyal followers, composed of fallen angels, which is described to be a "third of heaven." Satan's characterization as the leader of a failing cause folds into this as well and is best exemplified through his own quote, "to be weak is to be miserable; Doing or Suffering," as through shared solidarity espoused by empowering rhetoric, Satan riles up his comrades in arms and keeps them focused towards their shared goal.\[11\] Similar to Milton's republican sentiments of overthrowing the King of England for both better representation and parliamentary power, Satan argues that his shared rebellion with the fallen angels is an effort to "explain the hypocrisy of God," and in doing so, they will be treated with the respect and acknowledgement that they deserve. As scholar Wayne Rebhorn argues, "Satan insists that he and his fellow revolutionaries held their places by right and even leading him to claim that they were self-created and self-sustained" and thus Satan's position in the rebellion is much like that of his own real world creator.\[12\]

1.  , [5:860](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/s:Paradise_Lost/Book_V "wikilink").
2.  , [5:794–802](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/s:Paradise_Lost/Book_V "wikilink").
3.  McCollom, William G. ―The Downfall of the Tragic Hero.‖ College English 19.2 (1957): 51- 56.
4.  (Taha, Ibrahim. "Heroism In Literature." The American Journal of Semiotics18.1/4 (2002): 107-26. Philosophy Document Center. Web. 12 Nov. 2014)
5.
6.  Taha, Ibrahim. "Heroism In Literature." The American Journal of Semiotics18.1/4 (2002): 107-26. Philosophy Document Center. Web. 12 Nov. 2014
7.  Steadman, John M. "Heroic Virtue and the Divine Image in Paradise Lost. "Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes 22.1/2 (1959): pp. 89
8.  Steadman, John M. "Heroic Virtue and the Divine Image in Paradise Lost. "Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes 22.1/2 (1959): pp. 90
9.
10.
11. Milton, John. Paradise Lost. The Norton Anthology of English Literature. 9th ed. Vol. B. New York ; London: W.W. Norton, 2012. 1950. Print.
12. Rebhorn, Wayne A. "The Humanist Tradition and Milton's Satan: The Conservative as Revolutionary." SEL: Studies in English Literature 1500–1900, Vol. 13, No. 1, The English Renaissance (Winter 1973), pp. 81-93. Print.