### 有性生殖

Among sea anemones, sexual plasticity may occur. That is, asexually produced clones derived from a single founder individual can contain both male and female individuals (ramets).\[1\] When eggs and sperm (gametes) are formed, they can produce [受精卵](../Page/受精卵.md "wikilink") derived from “selfing” (within the founding clone) or out-crossing, that then develop into swimming planula larvae.

The overwhelming majority of stony coral (*[石珊瑚目](../Page/石珊瑚目.md "wikilink")*) taxa are hermaphroditic in their adult colonies.\[2\] In these species, there is ordinarily synchronized release of eggs and sperm into the water during brief spawning events.\[3\] Although some species are capable of self-fertilization to varying extents, cross-fertilization appears to be the dominant mating pattern.\[4\]

## 詞源

The name polyp was given by [勒內-安托萬·費爾紹·德·列奧米爾](../Page/勒内-安托万·费尔绍·德·列奥米尔.md "wikilink")\[5\] to these organisms from their superficial resemblance to an [八腕目](../Page/八腕目.md "wikilink") (Fr. , ultimately from Greek adverb  (, "much") + noun  (, "foot")), with its circle of writhing arms round the mouth. This comparison contrasts to the common name "coral-insects" applied to the polyps which form coral.\[6\]

## 天敵

75% of the world's corals are threatened\[7\] due to overfishing, destructive fishing, coastal development, pollution, thermal stress, ocean acidification, crown-of-thorn starfish, and introduced invasive species.\[8\]

In recent decades the conditions that corals and polyps have found themselves in have been changing, leading to new diseases being observed in corals in many parts of the world, posing even greater risk to an already pressured animal.\[9\] Aquatic life has been put under a substantial amount of stress because of the pollutants caused by land-based agriculture. Particularly, exposure to the insecticide profenofos and the fungicide MEMC have played a major part in polyp retraction and biomass decrease.\[10\]

\[11\] There have been many experiments resulting supporting hypothesis that heat stress in *Acropora tenuis* juvenile polyp provoke an up-regulation of protein in the endoplasmic reticulum. The results vary based on the polyp characteristics such as age, type, and growth stage.

1.
2.  Heyward AJ, Babcock, RC (1986). Self- and cross-fertilization in scleractinian corals. Marine Biology 90, 191-195
3.
4.
5.  Stott, Rebecca. "Darwin's ghosts: the secret history of evolution" New York, Spiegel & Grau (2012).
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.