> 本文内容由[Draft:水螅蟲2](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:水螅蟲2)转换而来。


## 內部解剖

The external form of the polyp varies greatly in different cases. The column may be long and slender, or may be so short in the vertical direction that the body becomes disk-like. The tentacles may number many hundreds or may be very few, in rare cases only one or two. They may be long and filamentous, or short and reduced to mere knobs or warts. They may be simple and unbranched, or they may be feathery in pattern. The mouth may be level with the surface of the peristome, or may be projecting and trumpet-shaped. As regards internal structure, polyps exhibit two well-marked types of organization, each characteristic of one of the two classes, [水螅綱](../Page/水螅纲.md "wikilink") and [珊瑚](../Page/珊瑚.md "wikilink").\[1\]

In the class [水螅綱](../Page/水螅纲.md "wikilink"), the polyps are indeed often very simple, like the common little [淡水](../Page/淡水.md "wikilink")的[物種中的](../Page/物种.md "wikilink")[一個](../Page/属.md "wikilink")*[水螅屬](../Page/水螅屬.md "wikilink")*. 珊瑚polyps, including the 珊瑚 and [海葵](../Page/海葵.md "wikilink"), are much more complex due to the development of a tubular  leading inward from the mouth and a series of radial partitions called . Many of the mesenteries project into the enteric cavity but some extend from the body wall to the central stomodaeum.

## 生殖

It is an almost universal attribute of polyps to reproduce [無性生殖](../Page/无性生殖.md "wikilink") by the method of [出芽生殖](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/出芽生殖 "wikilink"). This mode of [繁殖](../Page/繁殖.md "wikilink") may be combined with [有性生殖](../Page/有性生殖.md "wikilink"), or may be the sole method by which the polyp produces [後代](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/后代 "wikilink"), in which case the polyp is entirely without [生殖器](../Page/生殖器.md "wikilink").\[2\]

### 無性生殖

In many cases the buds formed do not separate from the parent but remain in continuity with it, thus forming colonies or stocks, which may reach a great size and contain a vast number of individuals. Slight differences in the method of budding produce great variations in the form of the colonies. The [暗礁](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/暗礁 "wikilink")-building corals are polyp-colonies, strengthened by the formation of a firm skeleton.\[3\]

1.
2.
3.