[Polypen_einer_Gorgonie.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Polypen_einer_Gorgonie.jpg "fig:Polypen_einer_Gorgonie.jpg") polyps in a reef aquarium\]\] 動物學上的息肉是在Cindaria門中發現的兩種形式之一，另一種是水母。 息肉的形狀大致為圓柱形，並在花瓶形物體的軸線上伸長。 在單獨的息肉中，北端通過稱為踏板的圓盤狀固定物附著在基質上，而在息肉菌落中，其直接或間接地與其他息肉相連。 口腔末端包含嘴巴，並被一圈觸手包圍。

## 種類

在Anthozoa類中，包括海葵和珊瑚，個體永遠是息肉。 然而，在水生動物一類中，個體可能是息肉或水母，大多數物種的生命週期都處於息肉階段和水母階段。 在Shyphozoa類中，水母階段占主導地位，息肉階段可能存在也可能不存在，這取決於家庭。 在那些將幼蟲的扁平藻變成了息肉的後生動物中，息肉（也稱為“鞘狀肉瘤”）會一直生長，直到形成一疊板狀水母，然後在被稱為“加固”的過程中pin開並遊走。 一旦疏鬆完成，息肉可能會死亡，或自身再生以稍後再次重複該過程。 對於Cubozoans，扁平蟲會沉降到合適的表面上，並發展成息肉。 然後，cubozoan息肉最終直接變成了美杜莎。

## Anatomy

[Coral_polyp.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Coral_polyp.jpg "fig:Coral_polyp.jpg") The body of the polyp may be roughly compared in a structure to a [sac](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/wikt:sac "wikilink"), the wall of which is composed of two layers of [cells](../Page/细胞.md "wikilink"). The outer layer is known technically as the [ectoderm](../Page/胚层.md "wikilink"), the inner layer as the [endoderm](../Page/胚层.md "wikilink") (or gastroderm). Between ectoderm and endoderm is a supporting layer of structureless gelatinous substance termed [mesoglea](../Page/中胶层.md "wikilink"), secreted by the cell layers of the body wall.\[1\] The mesoglea can be thinner than the endoderm or ectoderm or comprise the bulk of the body as in larger jellyfish. The mesoglea can contain [skeletal](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/內骨骼 "wikilink") elements derived from cells [migrated](../Page/细胞迁移.md "wikilink") from ectoderm.

The sac-like body built up in this way is attached usually to some firm object by its blind end, and bears at the upper end the mouth which is surrounded by a circle of [tentacles](../Page/觸手.md "wikilink") which resemble glove fingers. The tentacles are [organs](../Page/器官.md "wikilink") which serve both for the tactile sense and for the capture of food.\[2\] Polyps extend their tentacles, particularly at night, containing coiled stinging nettle-like cells or s which pierce and poison and firmly hold living prey paralysing or killing them. Polyp prey includes [copepods](../Page/橈腳類.md "wikilink") and fish larvae.\[3\] Longitudinal [muscular fibrils](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/muscular_fibril "wikilink") formed from the cells of the ectoderm allow tentacles to contract when conveying the food to the mouth. Similarly, circularly disposed muscular fibrils formed from the endoderm permit tentacles to be protract or thrust out once they are contracted. These muscle fibres belong to the same two systems, thus allows the whole body to retract or protrude outwards.\[4\]

We can distinguish therefore in the body of a polyp the column, circular or oval in section, forming the trunk, resting on a base or foot and surmounted by the crown of tentacles, which enclose an area termed the , in the centre of which again is the mouth. As a rule there is no other opening to the body except the mouth, but in some cases [excretory](../Page/排泄作用.md "wikilink") pores are known to occur in the foot, and pores may occur at the tips of the tentacles. Thus it is seen that a polyp is an animal of very simple structure,\[5\] a [living fossil](../Page/活化石.md "wikilink") that has not changed significantly for about half a billion years (per generally accepted dating of [Cambrian](../Page/寒武纪.md "wikilink") [sedimentary rock](../Page/沉积岩.md "wikilink")).

The external form of the polyp varies greatly in different cases. The column may be long and slender, or may be so short in the vertical direction that the body becomes disk-like. The tentacles may number many hundreds or may be very few, in rare cases only one or two. They may be long and filamentous, or short and reduced to mere knobs or warts. They may be simple and unbranched, or they may be feathery in pattern. The mouth may be level with the surface of the peristome, or may be projecting and trumpet-shaped. As regards internal structure, polyps exhibit two well-marked types of organization, each characteristic of one of the two classes, [Hydrozoa](../Page/水螅纲.md "wikilink") and [Anthozoa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coral "wikilink").\[6\]

In the class [Hydrozoa](../Page/水螅纲.md "wikilink"), the polyps are indeed often very simple, like the common little [fresh water](../Page/淡水.md "wikilink") [species](../Page/物种.md "wikilink") of the [genus](../Page/属.md "wikilink") *[Hydra](../Page/水螅屬.md "wikilink")*. [Anthozoan](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coral "wikilink") polyps, including the [corals](../Page/珊瑚.md "wikilink") and [sea anemones](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/sea_anemone "wikilink"), are much more complex due to the development of a tubular  leading inward from the mouth and a series of radial partitions called . Many of the mesenteries project into the enteric cavity but some extend from the body wall to the central stomodaeum.

## Reproduction

It is an almost universal attribute of polyps to reproduce [asexually](../Page/无性生殖.md "wikilink") by the method of [budding](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/出芽生殖 "wikilink"). This mode of [reproduction](../Page/繁殖.md "wikilink") may be combined with [sexual reproduction](../Page/有性生殖.md "wikilink"), or may be the sole method by which the polyp produces [offspring](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/后代 "wikilink"), in which case the polyp is entirely without [sexual organs](../Page/生殖器.md "wikilink").\[7\]

### Asexual reproduction

In many cases the buds formed do not separate from the parent but remain in continuity with it, thus forming colonies or stocks, which may reach a great size and contain a vast number of individuals. Slight differences in the method of budding produce great variations in the form of the colonies. The [reef](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/暗礁 "wikilink")-building corals are polyp-colonies, strengthened by the formation of a firm skeleton.\[8\]

### Sexual reproduction

Among sea anemones, sexual plasticity may occur. That is, asexually produced clones derived from a single founder individual can contain both male and female individuals (ramets).\[9\] When eggs and sperm (gametes) are formed, they can produce [zygotes](../Page/受精卵.md "wikilink") derived from “selfing” (within the founding clone) or out-crossing, that then develop into swimming planula larvae.

The overwhelming majority of stony coral (*[Scleractinia](../Page/石珊瑚目.md "wikilink")*) taxa are hermaphroditic in their adult colonies.\[10\] In these species, there is ordinarily synchronized release of eggs and sperm into the water during brief spawning events.\[11\] Although some species are capable of self-fertilization to varying extents, cross-fertilization appears to be the dominant mating pattern.\[12\]

## Etymology

The name polyp was given by [René Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur](../Page/勒内-安托万·费尔绍·德·列奥米尔.md "wikilink")\[13\] to these organisms from their superficial resemblance to an [octopus](../Page/八腕目.md "wikilink") (Fr. , ultimately from Greek adverb  (, "much") + noun  (, "foot")), with its circle of writhing arms round the mouth. This comparison contrasts to the common name "coral-insects" applied to the polyps which form coral.\[14\]

## Threats

75% of the world's corals are threatened\[15\] due to overfishing, destructive fishing, coastal development, pollution, thermal stress, ocean acidification, crown-of-thorn starfish, and introduced invasive species.\[16\]

In recent decades the conditions that corals and polyps have found themselves in have been changing, leading to new diseases being observed in corals in many parts of the world, posing even greater risk to an already pressured animal.\[17\] Aquatic life has been put under a substantial amount of stress because of the pollutants caused by land-based agriculture. Particularly, exposure to the insecticide profenofos and the fungicide MEMC have played a major part in polyp retraction and biomass decrease.\[18\]

\[19\] There have been many experiments resulting supporting hypothesis that heat stress in *Acropora tenuis* juvenile polyp provoke an up-regulation of protein in the endoplasmic reticulum. The results vary based on the polyp characteristics such as age, type, and growth stage.

## See also

  - [Jellyfish](../Page/水母.md "wikilink")

  - [Portuguese man o' war](../Page/僧帽水母.md "wikilink")

  -
## Notes

## External links

  - \<

  -
  -
  -
  -
[Category:Cnidarian_biology](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Cnidarian_biology "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.  Chang, T.D. and Sullivan, J.M. "[Temporal associations of coral and zooplankton activity on a Caribbean reef](http://www.dartmouth.edu/~biofsp/pdf08/133_SIFP1_ACCEPTED_coral_zoops.pdf) " Dartmouth Studies in Tropical Ecology. 2008. Accessed 2009-06-21.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10. Heyward AJ, Babcock, RC (1986). Self- and cross-fertilization in scleractinian corals. Marine Biology 90, 191-195
11.
12.
13. Stott, Rebecca. "Darwin's ghosts: the secret history of evolution" New York, Spiegel & Grau (2012).
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.