> 本文内容由[Draft:波爾塔瓦 \(詩歌\)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:波爾塔瓦_\(詩歌\))转换而来。


## 詩作的歷史背景與啟發

Ivan Mazepa, Vasily Kochubei, and Kochubei's daughter Maria (Matryona) are historical figures.\[1\] According to historians, it is true that Mazepa had a romantic interest in Maria and she went to live in his home, but whether they were involved in a relationship is unclear. In reality, Mazepa and Maria did not elope: Kochubei removed her from Mazepa's home and sent her to a .

It is true that Kochubei denounced Mazepa to Peter in 1706 for conspiring against him with Charles XII of Sweden, but it is unclear if Kochubei had evidence of this alleged conspiracy. However, in 1708 Charles and Mazepa did sign a secret treaty, and they did fight against Peter I in the battle of Poltava.

As Pushkin's Foreword makes clear, he had read a number of sympathetic treatments of Ivan Mazepa and was seeking to respond to them. He was responding both to Byron's *Mazeppa* and to a poem *[Voinarovskii](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voinarovskii "wikilink")* by the Russian [十二月党人起义](../Page/十二月党人起义.md "wikilink") poet [Konstantin Ryleev](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Konstantin_Ryleev "wikilink") which praises Mazepa.\[2\]

## 詩作分析

This poem has received considerably less attention than Pushkin's other narrative poems, and its reception has been mixed.\[3\] A.D.P. Briggs sees Pushkin's fusion genres and subject matter as unsuccessful, calls it overly-long - at nearly 1500 lines it is one of the longest of Pushkin's narrative poems - and protests the lack of variety in rhyme.\[4\] Babinski also makes the charge that the disparate elements in the poem are not well-integrated, suggesting the poem is "not a continuous narrative… barely a narrative poem at all, more like a three-act play with an all-purpose narrator to keep the material together."\[5\]

Several critics have made the charge that *[波尔塔瓦](../Page/波尔塔瓦.md "wikilink")* is an apology for [俄罗斯帝国](../Page/俄罗斯帝国.md "wikilink"). J.P. Pauls (1962) accuses Pushkin of "propagating the Russian imperialistic cause" and "distorting" historical truth.\[6\] This view is echoed by Svetlana Evdokimova (1999), who contrasts what she sees as unabashed patriotism of *Poltava* with the richer, more ambiguous portrayal of Peter I and Empire in *[青铜骑士](../Page/青铜骑士.md "wikilink")* (1833).\[7\] Pushkin's biographer [亨利·特罗亚](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/亨利·特罗亚 "wikilink") suggested that Pushkin deliberately wrote a pro-Imperial poem in order to assuage [尼古拉一世 (俄国)](../Page/尼古拉一世_\(俄国\).md "wikilink"), who was suspicious of his political loyalties after his return from exile.\[8\]

Soviet critics tended to be more sympathetic towards the poem. V.M. Zhirmunskii (1924) sees the poem as the moment of Pushkin's decisive break with Byron, arguing that Pushkin uses a moral and historical perspective to create psychological portraits and evaluations of his characters, while Byron relies on emotion alone.\[9\] S.M. Bondi argues that Pushkin successfully pulls together historical and personal themes and the poem is a valuable meditation on the place of the Russian state among European powers.\[10\] However, while Pushkin certainly made the claim that he was writing a historically-accurate poem, Babinski points out "for all his insistence upon historicity, Pushkin slanted the facts."\[11\]

Western critics who have been kinder to *Poltava* have focused on its characterization. John Bayley says that Mazepa "has something of the depth of a Shakespeare portrait".\[12\] David Bethea also suggests that *Poltava* owes something to Shakespearean characterization.\[13\] The most sympathetic treatment of the poem is offered in a book-length treatment by Virginia Burns (2005), which praises the poem for its successful characterization, tight structure and the scope of its philosophical inquiry.\[14\]

## 出版

Pushkin's notebooks show that he began *Poltava* on April 5, 1828, and completed the rest of it in October: Song I on October 3, Song II on October 9, Song III on October 16 and the Dedication on October 27. He finished the Foreword on 31 January 1829 and the poem was published later that year.\[15\]

## 影響

柴可夫斯基1884年的歌劇作品**參考波爾塔瓦的內容編寫.

1.  The historical information here is based on that given in Babinski, H. F. (1974). *The Mazeppa legend in European Romanticism*. New York, Columbia University Press. pp. 75-82
2.  For a detailed account of how Pushkin's work engages with Ryleev's, see Babinski, Chapter 5.
3.  For a good overview of responses, see Burns 20005, p. 13
4.  See the entry by Briggs on "Pushkin" in the 1998 *The Reference Guide to Russian Literature*, ed. Neil Cornwell. London: Fitzroy Dearborn. Also his 1982 study, *Alexander Pushkin: A Critical Study* Duckworth: London, pp. 92 - 94.
5.  Babinski, p. 133
6.  J.P. Pauls (1962), ''Puskhin's' 'Poltava. New York, Shevchenko Scientific Society, p. 30
7.  Evdokimova, Svetlana. *Pushkin's Historical Imagination* New Haven, Yale University Press (see Chapter 6)
8.  Troyat is cited in Babinski, p. 110
9.  Zhirmunskii, V.M. (1924) *Bairon i Pushkin* Leningrad, Nauka. pp. 200-2016
10. Bondi, S.M. (ed). (1960) Sobranie sochinenii A.S. Pushkina v desiasti tomakh. Moscow. Kommentarii k poeme *Poltave* Available online at <http://www.rvb.ru/pushkin/02comm/0791.htm>
11. Babinski, p. 122
12. Bayley, John. (1971) *Pushkin: A Comparative Commentary.* Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 120-22
13. Bethea, D. (2001) "Pushkin and Shakespeare" in *The Routledge Companion to Russian Literature* ed. Neil Cornwell. London: Routledge.
14. Burns, Virginia M. (2005) *Pushkin's "Poltava": a literary structuralist interpretation* Lanham, Maryland: University Press of America
15. Pushkin 1949: vol. 4 p. 536