**約翰漢斯剻李奇（Johann** "**Hans**" **Friedrich Karl Asperger** (, ; 18 February 1906 – 21 October 1980) was an Austrian [pediatrician](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/小兒科 "wikilink"), [eugenicist](../Page/優生學.md "wikilink"), , and medical professor. He is best known for his early studies on mental disorders, especially in children. His work was largely unnoticed during his lifetime except for a few accolades in [Vienna](../Page/維也納.md "wikilink"), and his studies on psychological disorders acquired world renown only posthumously. He wrote over 300 publications, mostly concerning a condition he termed *autistic psychopathy* (AP).

There was a resurgence of interest in his work beginning in the 1980s, and due to his earlier work on [autism spectrum disorders](../Page/自閉症光譜.md "wikilink"), [Asperger syndrome](../Page/亞斯伯格症候群.md "wikilink") (AS), was named after him. Both Asperger's original pediatric diagnosis of AP and the ous diagnosis of AS that was named after him several decades later have been controversial. This has especially been the case since it was announced that, during the [Nazi](../Page/纳粹主义.md "wikilink") years, Asperger sent disabled children to be ["euthanized"](../Page/安乐死.md "wikilink") (killed) at the .\[1\]

## 個人

漢斯·阿斯伯格出生於奧地利維也納，並在距離城市不遠的一個農場長大。三兄弟中最年長的一個\[2\], Asperger had difficulty finding friends and was considered a lonely, remote child.\[3\]\[4\] He was talented in language; in particular, he was interested in the Austrian poet [Franz Grillparzer](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/弗朗茨·格里帕泽 "wikilink"), whose poetry he would frequently quote to his uninterested classmates. He also liked to quote himself and often referred to himself from a third-person perspective.\[5\]

As a youth, he joined the Wandering Scholars of the Bund Neuland, a conservative Catholic organization within the . He considered this a formative experience, later stating: "I was molded by the spirit of the German youth movement, which was one of the noblest blossoms of the German spirit."\[6\]

Asperger studied medicine at the [University of Vienna](../Page/维也纳大学.md "wikilink") under \[7\]\[8\] and practiced at the University Children's Hospital in Vienna. He earned his medical degree in 1931 and became director of the special education section at the university children's clinic in Vienna in 1932.\[9\] He joined the   on May 10, 1934, nine days after [Chancellor](../Page/奥地利总理.md "wikilink") [Engelbert Dollfuss](../Page/恩格爾伯特·陶爾斐斯.md "wikilink") passed a new constitution making himself dictator.\[10\] Asperger married in 1935 and had five children.\[11\]

## Career

During [World War II](../Page/第二次世界大战.md "wikilink"), he was a medical officer, serving in the [Axis](../Page/轴心国.md "wikilink") [occupation of Yugoslavia](../Page/南斯拉夫人民解放戰爭.md "wikilink"); his younger brother died at [Stalingrad](../Page/斯大林格勒战役.md "wikilink").\[12\] Near the end of the war, Asperger opened a school for children with Sister Viktorine Zak. The school was bombed and destroyed, Sister Viktorine was killed, and much of Asperger's early work was lost.\[13\]

Georg Frankl was Asperger's chief diagnostician until he moved from Austria to America and was hired by  in 1937.\[14\]

Asperger published a definition of autistic psychopathy in 1944 that was similar with the definition published earlier by a Russian neurologist named  in 1926.\[15\]\[16\] Asperger identified in four boys a pattern of behavior and abilities that included “a lack of [empathy](../Page/同理心.md "wikilink"), little ability to form friendships, one-sided conversations, intense absorption in a special interest, and clumsy movements”.\[17\] Asperger noticed that some of the children he identified as being autistic used their special talents in adulthood and had successful careers. One of them became a professor of [astronomy](../Page/天文學.md "wikilink") and solved an error in [Newton](../Page/艾萨克·牛顿.md "wikilink")'s work he had originally noticed as a student.\[18\] Another one of Asperger's patients was the Austrian writer and [Nobel Prize in Literature](../Page/诺贝尔文学奖.md "wikilink") laureate, [Elfriede Jelinek](../Page/艾尔弗雷德·耶利内克.md "wikilink").\[19\]

In 1944, after the publication of his landmark paper describing autistic symptoms, Hans Asperger found a permanent tenured post at the University of Vienna. Shortly after the war ended, he became director of a children's clinic in the city. It was there that he was appointed chair of pediatrics at the University of Vienna, a post he held for twenty years. He later held a post at [Innsbruck](../Page/因斯布鲁克.md "wikilink"). Beginning in 1964, he headed the [SOS-Kinderdorf](../Page/SOS兒童村.md "wikilink") in [Hinterbrühl](../Page/后布吕尔.md "wikilink").\[20\] He became professor emeritus in 1977, and died three years later. AS was named after Hans Asperger and officially recognized in the fourth edition of the *[Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders](../Page/精神疾病診斷與統計手冊.md "wikilink")* (DSM) in 1994;\[21\] it was removed from  in 2013.\[22\]

## 死後的發展

### 亞斯伯格症候群

亞斯伯格在他的這個行為模式得到廣泛認識之前就去世了。 這部分由於他的作品全部德文因此很少被翻譯;然後，就像現在一樣，醫學院學者也根據其優點或缺乏而無視阿斯伯格的工作。英語研究員  在1981年的論文中提出了亞斯伯格症候群病情, *亞斯伯格症候群: 臨床帳戶*, 這挑戰了1943年 先前接受的自閉症模型。\[23\]直到1991年，亞斯伯格可靠的作品翻譯才由完成\[24\]; 在此之前，亞斯伯格是幾乎未知的\[25\]。弗里斯說有關診斷的基本問題沒有得到解答，

並且沒有必要用科學數據來解決這個問題\[26\]。因亞斯伯格有了陰影的 Unlike Kanner, 在他的一生中，後者的發現在英語世界中常被忽視。In the early 1990s, Asperger's work gained some notice due to Wing's research on the subject and Frith's recent translation, leading to the inclusion of the eponymous condition in the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th revision ([ICD-10](../Page/ICD-10.md "wikilink")) in 1993, and the [American Psychiatric Association](../Page/美國精神醫學學會.md "wikilink")'s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 4th revision ([DSM-IV](../Page/精神疾病診斷與統計手冊.md "wikilink")) in 1994, some half a century after Asperger's original research.

Despite this brief resurgence of interest in his work in the 1990s, AS remains a controversial and contentious diagnosis due to its unclear relationship to the autism spectrum. In 2010 there was a majority consensus to subsume AS into the diagnosis "[Autistic Spectrum Disorder](../Page/自閉症光譜.md "wikilink")" in the 2013  diagnostic manual.\[27\] The [World Health Organization](../Page/世界卫生组织.md "wikilink")'s ICD-10 Version 2015 describes AS as “a disorder of uncertain  validity”.\[28\]

In his 1944 paper, as Uta Frith translated from the German in 1991, Asperger wrote, “We are convinced, then, that autistic people have their place in the organism of the social community. They fulfill their role well, perhaps better than anyone else could, and we are talking of people who as children had the greatest difficulties and caused untold worries to their care-givers.”\[29\] Based on Frith's translation, however, Asperger initially stated: “Unfortunately, in the majority of cases the positive aspects of autism do not outweigh the negative ones.”\[30\] Psychologist [Eric Schopler](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/艾瑞克·修普勒 "wikilink") wrote in 1998:

> Asperger's own publications did not inspire research, replication, or scientific interest prior to 1980. Instead, he laid the fertile groundwork for the diagnostic confusion that has grown since 1980.\[31\]

Since 2009, Asperger's birthday, 18 February, has been declared International Asperger's Day by various governments.\[32\]

### Nazi involvement

Edith Sheffer, who specializes in modern European history, wrote in 2018 that Asperger cooperated with the Nazi regime, including sending children to the  clinic which participated in the ["euthanasia"](../Page/安乐死.md "wikilink") (killing) program.\[33\] She wrote a book further elaborating on her research called *Asperger's Children: The origins of Autism in Nazi Vienna* (2018)*.*\[34\]

Another scholar and historian from the , Herwig Czech concluded in a 2017 article in the journal *Molecular Autism,* which was published in April 2018:

> Asperger managed to accommodate himself to the Nazi regime and was rewarded for his affirmations of loyalty with career opportunities. He joined several organizations affiliated with the NSDAP (although not the Nazi party itself), publicly legitimized race hygiene policies including forced sterilizations and, on several occasions, actively cooperated with the child ‘euthanasia' program.\[35\]

## 參考文獻

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.
6.

7.
8.

9.
10.

11.
12.
13.

14.

15.

16.

17.
18.

19.

20.
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.
28.

29.

30.
31.

32.

33.

34.

35.