> 本文内容由[Draft:生酮飲食](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:生酮飲食)转换而来。


## 摘要 / 癲癇 / 歷史

已移入主條目 [生酮飲食](../Page/生酮飲食.md "wikilink") 中

## 效果

約有半數癲癇患者嘗試生酮飲食之後，癲癇發作頻率可以降到一半以下，約90%患者頻率可以降到至少2/3以下\[1\]。雖然專家建議至少實施三個月以上才能判斷有效與否，但3/4的兒童在飲食開始兩周之後就有初步效果\[2\]。癲癇治療無效的兒童使用生酮飲食的效益似乎較更換另一種抗癲癇藥為高\[3\]。有些證據顯示青少年或成年患者嘗試生酮飲食或有效益\[4\]。

### 試驗設計

早年的研究報導顯示相當高的成功率。在1925年的一篇研究中，60%的病人從此不再發生癲癇，剩餘35%的病人的發作頻率減少一半以上。這些早年的研究大多屬於[世代研究](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/世代研究 "wikilink")，從醫師的診療個案中選擇嚴格遵守的個案進行分析。然而這樣的研究很難與現在的臨床試驗相互參照。其中一個原因是早年研究大多都有，因為這些研究大多排除了無法進行生酮飲食或無法遵循醫囑的病人，因此會得到比較好的結果。現今的研究為了要避免這樣的偏誤產生，會傾向使用[前瞻性](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/前瞻性研究 "wikilink")[治療意向分析法](../Page/治療意向分析法.md "wikilink")的研究設計，在治療開始前先選定病患族群，不論這些病人是否完成療程或是否可以進行生酮飲食都納入研究分析\[5\]。

另外，新癲癇藥物和療法的發展也造成了研究對象的差異。在近代，生酮飲食的研究對象通常是嘗試數種癲癇藥仍治療無效的孩童，因此可以預設他們的癲癇本身就較難治癒。早年和現代的研究在實驗流程上也有所差異，早年的研究在生酮飲食開始之前，會先要求實驗對象[禁食](../Page/禁食.md "wikilink")一段時間，是病患減重5–10%後，嚴格限制之後攝入的熱量。但現今的研究考量到兒童的健康與發育問題，放寬了對於飲食的相關限制\[6\]。過去也有一些研究嚴格限制流質食物的攝入，不過這樣的限制會導致便秘及腎結石，現今普遍認為這樣的限制不具效益\[7\]。

### 結果

1998年[约翰·霍普金斯医院](../Page/约翰·霍普金斯医院.md "wikilink")針對生酮飲食發表一項前瞻性意向分析實驗\[8\]，並於2001年發表追蹤報告\[9\]。就如同大多數有關生酮飲食的論文一樣，本實驗並沒有[對照組](../Page/對照組.md "wikilink")的設計。該次實驗收納了150名孩童，3個月後，83%的孩童有成功持續飲食，其中26%癲癇病情獲得良好緩解，31%的孩童獲得極佳緩解，3%則完全沒有再發作\[10\]。到第12個月時，55%孩童持續遵從飲食，23%獲得良好緩解，20%獲得極佳緩解，7%則完全沒有再發。受試者停止療程的原因包含效果不彰、過於嚴苛，或是身體不適，但大多中止療程的受試者對癲癇效益仍然持續。實驗開始後第二、三、四年的維持率分別為39%、20%，和12%。最常見的中止原因為癲癇已獲得良好控制。到了第四年，16%最初受試者的癲癇頻率或的良好緩解，14%獲得極佳緩解，另外13%癲癇獲得完全緩解。以上數據包含了未持續飲食的受試者，至於持續飲食的受試者大多未能完全緩解，但大多獲得極佳緩解\[11\]\[12\]。

2006年的一份[元分析](../Page/元分析.md "wikilink")統合了19份研究，共1084名患者\[13\]，結果顯示三分之一的患者癲癇頻率獲得極佳緩解，二分之一獲得良好緩解\[14\]。2018年一份[考科藍](../Page/考科藍.md "wikilink")的系統性綜述，分析11了份針對藥物治療失效之癲癇患者的隨機對照試驗\[15\]。其中個案數最多的一個試驗\[16\]，生酮飲食組有38%的孩童和年輕人癲癇發作頻率減少一半以上，比起對照組的6%要高。兩份比較改良式阿特金斯飲食法和控制組的大型研究也顯示類似結果，超過50%的孩童發作頻率下降一半以上，相對而言控制組僅有10%\[17\]。

A systematic review in 2018 looked at 16 studies on the ketogenic diet in adults. It concluded that the treatment was becoming more popular for that group of patients, that the efficacy in adults was similar to children, the side effects relatively mild. However, many patients gave up with the diet, for various reasons, and the quality of evidence was inferior to studies on children. Health issues include high levels of [low-density lipoprotein](../Page/低密度脂蛋白.md "wikilink"), high total [cholesterol](../Page/膽固醇.md "wikilink"), and [weight loss](../Page/體重下降.md "wikilink").\[18\]

## Indications and contra-indications

[Anticonvulsants.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Anticonvulsants.jpg "fig:Anticonvulsants.jpg") The ketogenic diet is indicated as an adjunctive (additional) treatment in children and young people with .\[19\]\[20\] It is approved by national [clinical guidelines](../Page/醫學指南.md "wikilink") in Scotland,\[21\] England, and Wales\[22\] and reimbursed by nearly all US insurance companies.\[23\] Children with a focal  (a single point of brain abnormality causing the epilepsy) who would make suitable candidates for  are more likely to become seizure-free with surgery than with the ketogenic diet.\[24\]\[25\] About a third of epilepsy centres that offer the ketogenic diet also offer a dietary therapy to adults. Some clinicians consider the two less restrictive dietary variants—the low [glycaemic index](../Page/升糖指数.md "wikilink") treatment and the modified Atkins diet—to be more appropriate for adolescents and adults.\[26\] A liquid form of the ketogenic diet is particularly easy to prepare for, and well tolerated by, infants on formula and children who are .\[27\]\[28\]

Advocates for the diet recommend that it be seriously considered after two medications have failed, as the chance of other drugs succeeding is only 10%.\[29\]\[30\]\[31\] The diet can be considered earlier for some epilepsy and genetic syndromes where it has shown particular usefulness. These include , [infantile spasms](../Page/韋斯特綜合症.md "wikilink"), , and [tuberous sclerosis complex](../Page/结节性硬化症.md "wikilink").\[32\]\[33\]

A survey in 2005 of 88 paediatric neurologists in the US found that 36% regularly prescribed the diet after three or more drugs had failed, 24% occasionally prescribed the diet as a last resort, 24% had only prescribed the diet in a few rare cases, and 16% had never prescribed the diet. Several possible explanations exist for this gap between [evidence](../Page/循证医学.md "wikilink") and clinical practice.\[34\] One major factor may be the lack of adequately trained [dietitians](../Page/營養師.md "wikilink") who are needed to administer a ketogenic diet programme.\[35\]

Because the ketogenic diet alters the body's metabolism, it is a [first-line therapy](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/疗法 "wikilink") in children with certain [congenital metabolic diseases](../Page/遗传性代谢缺陷.md "wikilink") such as  and ,\[36\] which prevent the body from using carbohydrates as fuel, leading to a dependency on ketone bodies. The ketogenic diet is beneficial in treating the seizures and some other symptoms in these diseases and is an absolute indication.\[37\] However, it is absolutely [contraindicated](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/contraindication "wikilink") in the treatment of other diseases such as , [porphyria](../Page/紫質症.md "wikilink"), and other rare .\[38\] Persons with a disorder of fatty acid oxidation are unable to metabolise fatty acids, which replace carbohydrates as the major energy source on the diet. On the ketogenic diet, their bodies would consume their own protein stores for fuel, leading to [ketoacidosis](../Page/酮酸中毒.md "wikilink"), and eventually coma and death.\[39\]

## Interactions

The ketogenic diet is usually initiated in combination with the patient's existing anticonvulsant regimen, though patients may be weaned off anticonvulsants if the diet is successful. Some evidence of synergistic benefits is seen when the diet is combined with the  or with the drug [zonisamide](../Page/唑尼沙胺.md "wikilink"), and that the diet may be less successful in children receiving [phenobarbital](../Page/苯巴比妥.md "wikilink").\[40\]

## Adverse effects

The ketogenic diet is not a benign, holistic, or natural treatment for epilepsy; as with any serious medical therapy, complications may result.\[41\] These are generally less severe and less frequent than with anticonvulsant medication or surgery.\[42\] Common but easily treatable short-term side effects include [constipation](../Page/便秘.md "wikilink"), low-grade [acidosis](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/酸中毒 "wikilink"), and [hypoglycaemia](../Page/低血糖.md "wikilink") if an initial fast is undertaken. [Raised levels of lipids in the blood](../Page/高脂血症.md "wikilink") affect up to 60% of children\[43\] and [cholesterol levels may increase](../Page/高膽固醇血症.md "wikilink") by around 30%.\[44\] This can be treated by changes to the fat content of the diet, such as from saturated fats towards polyunsaturated fats, and if persistent, by lowering the ketogenic ratio.\[45\] Supplements are necessary to counter the dietary deficiency of many [micronutrients](../Page/微量营养素.md "wikilink").\[46\]

Long-term use of the ketogenic diet in children increases the risk of slowed or stunted growth, bone fractures, and [kidney stones](../Page/腎結石.md "wikilink").\[47\] The diet reduces levels of [insulin-like growth factor 1](../Page/胰岛素样生长因子1.md "wikilink"), which is important for childhood growth. Like many anticonvulsant drugs, the ketogenic diet has an adverse effect on bone health. Many factors may be involved such as acidosis and suppressed growth hormone.\[48\] About one in 20 children on the ketogenic diet develop kidney stones (compared with one in several thousand for the general population). A class of anticonvulsants known as  (, [zonisamide](../Page/唑尼沙胺.md "wikilink")) are known to increase the risk of kidney stones, but the combination of these anticonvulsants and the ketogenic diet does not appear to elevate the risk above that of the diet alone.\[49\] The stones are treatable and do not justify discontinuation of the diet.\[50\] Johns Hopkins Hospital now gives oral [potassium citrate](../Page/檸檬酸鉀.md "wikilink") supplements to all ketogenic diet patients, resulting in one-seventh of the incidence of kidney stones.\[51\] However, this empiric usage has not been tested in a prospective controlled trial.\[52\] Kidney stone formation (nephrolithiasis) is associated with the diet for four reasons:\[53\]

  - Excess calcium in the urine () occurs due to increased bone demineralisation with acidosis. Bones are mainly composed of . The phosphate reacts with the acid, and the calcium is excreted by the kidneys.\[54\]
  - Hypocitraturia: the urine has an abnormally low concentration of citrate, which normally helps to dissolve free calcium.\[55\]
  - The urine has a low pH, which stops [uric acid](../Page/尿酸.md "wikilink") from dissolving, leading to crystals that act as a [nidus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/wikt:nidus "wikilink") for calcium stone formation.\[56\]
  - Many institutions traditionally restricted the water intake of patients on the diet to 80% of normal daily needs;\[57\] this practice is no longer encouraged.\[58\]

In adolescent and adults, common side effects reported include weight loss, constipation, , and in women, [dysmenorrhea](../Page/經痛.md "wikilink").\[59\]

## Implementation

The ketogenic diet is a [medical nutrition therapy](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/營養醫學 "wikilink") that involves participants from various disciplines. Team members include a registered paediatric [dietitian](../Page/營養師.md "wikilink") who coordinates the diet programme; a paediatric [neurologist](../Page/神經內科.md "wikilink") who is experienced in offering the ketogenic diet; and a  who is familiar with childhood epilepsy. Additional help may come from a  who works with the family and a [pharmacist](../Page/藥劑師.md "wikilink") who can advise on the carbohydrate content of medicines. Lastly, the parents and other caregivers must be educated in many aspects of the diet for it to be safely implemented.\[60\]

Implementing the diet can present difficulties for caregivers and the patient due to the time commitment involved in measuring and planning meals. Since any unplanned eating can potentially break the nutritional balance required, some people find the discipline needed to maintain the diet challenging and unpleasant. Some people terminate the diet or switch to a less demanding diet, like the modified Atkins diet or the low-glycaemic index treatment diet, because they find the difficulties too great.\[61\]

### Initiation

The Johns Hopkins Hospital protocol for initiating the ketogenic diet has been widely adopted.\[62\] It involves a consultation with the patient and their caregivers and, later, a short hospital admission.\[63\] Because of the risk of complications during ketogenic diet initiation, most centres begin the diet under close medical supervision in the hospital.\[64\]

At the initial consultation, patients are  for conditions that may [contraindicate](../Page/禁忌症.md "wikilink") the diet. A dietary [history](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/病史 "wikilink") is obtained and the parameters of the diet selected: the ketogenic ratio of fat to combined protein and carbohydrate, the calorie requirements and the fluid intake.\[65\]

The day before admission to hospital, the proportion of carbohydrate in the diet may be decreased and the patient begins fasting after his or her evening meal.\[66\] On admission, only calorie- and caffeine-free fluids\[67\] are allowed until dinner, which consists of "[eggnog](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/蛋诺类 "wikilink")"\[68\] restricted to one-third of the typical calories for a meal. The following breakfast and lunch are similar, and on the second day, the "eggnog" dinner is increased to two-thirds of a typical meal's caloric content. By the third day, dinner contains the full calorie quota and is a standard ketogenic meal (not "eggnog"). After a ketogenic breakfast on the fourth day, the patient is discharged. Where possible, the patient's current medicines are changed to carbohydrate-free formulations.\[69\]

When in the hospital, [glucose levels](../Page/血糖.md "wikilink") are checked several times daily and the patient is monitored for signs of symptomatic [ketosis](../Page/酮症.md "wikilink") (which can be treated with a small quantity of orange juice). Lack of energy and lethargy are common, but disappear within two weeks.\[70\] The parents attend classes over the first three full days, which cover nutrition, managing the diet, preparing meals, avoiding sugar, and handling illness.\[71\] The level of parental education and commitment required is higher than with medication.\[72\]

Variations on the Johns Hopkins protocol are common. The initiation can be performed using [outpatient](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/患者 "wikilink") clinics rather than requiring a stay in hospital. Often, no initial fast is used (fasting increases the risk of , hypoglycaemia, and weight loss). Rather than increasing meal sizes over the three-day initiation, some institutions maintain meal size, but alter the ketogenic ratio from 2:1 to 4:1.\[73\]

For patients who benefit, half achieve a seizure reduction within five days (if the diet starts with an initial fast of one to two days), three-quarters achieve a reduction within two weeks, and 90% achieve a reduction within 23 days. If the diet does not begin with a fast, the time for half of the patients to achieve an improvement is longer (two weeks), but the long-term seizure reduction rates are unaffected.\[74\] Parents are encouraged to persist with the diet for at least three months before any final consideration is made regarding efficacy.\[75\]

### Maintenance

After initiation, the child regularly visits the hospital outpatient clinic where they are seen by the dietitian and neurologist, and various tests and examinations are performed. These are held every three months for the first year and then every six months thereafter. Infants under one year old are seen more frequently, with the initial visit held after just two to four weeks.\[76\] A period of minor adjustments is necessary to ensure consistent ketosis is maintained and to better adapt the meal plans to the patient. This fine-tuning is typically done over the telephone with the hospital [dietitian](../Page/營養師.md "wikilink")\[77\] and includes changing the number of calories, altering the ketogenic ratio, or adding some MCT or coconut oils to a classic diet.\[78\]  are checked daily to detect whether ketosis has been achieved and to confirm that the patient is following the diet, though the level of ketones does not correlate with an anticonvulsant effect.\[79\] This is performed using ketone test strips containing [nitroprusside](../Page/硝普钠.md "wikilink"), which change colour from buff-pink to maroon in the presence of acetoacetate (one of the three ketone bodies).\[80\]

A short-lived increase in seizure frequency may occur during illness or if [ketone](../Page/酮.md "wikilink") levels fluctuate. The diet may be modified if seizure frequency remains high, or the child is losing weight.\[81\] Loss of seizure-control may come from unexpected sources. Even "sugar-free" food can contain carbohydrates such as [maltodextrin](../Page/麥芽糊精.md "wikilink"), [sorbitol](../Page/山梨糖醇.md "wikilink"), [starch](../Page/淀粉.md "wikilink"), and [fructose](../Page/果糖.md "wikilink"). The sorbitol content of suntan lotion and other skincare products may be high enough for some to be absorbed through the skin and thus negate ketosis.\[82\]

### Discontinuation

About 20% of children on the ketogenic diet achieve freedom from seizures, and many are able to reduce the use of anticonvulsant drugs or eliminate them altogether.\[83\] Commonly, at around two years on the diet, or after six months of being seizure-free, the diet may be gradually discontinued over two or three months. This is done by lowering the ketogenic ratio until urinary ketosis is no longer detected, and then lifting all calorie restrictions.\[84\] This timing and method of discontinuation mimics that of anticonvulsant drug therapy in children, where the child has become seizure-free. When the diet is required to treat certain metabolic diseases, the duration will be longer. The total diet duration is up to the treating ketogenic diet team and parents; durations up to 12 years have been studied and found beneficial.\[85\]

Children who discontinue the diet after achieving seizure freedom have about a 20% risk of seizures returning. The length of time until recurrence is highly variable, but averages two years. This risk of recurrence compares with 10% for resective surgery (where part of the brain is removed) and 30–50% for anticonvulsant therapy. Of those who have a recurrence, just over half can regain freedom from seizures either with anticonvulsants or by returning to the ketogenic diet. Recurrence is more likely if, despite seizure freedom, an [electroencephalogram](../Page/腦電圖.md "wikilink") shows epileptiform spikes, which indicate epileptic activity in the brain but are below the level that will cause a seizure. Recurrence is also likely if an [MRI scan](../Page/核磁共振成像.md "wikilink") shows focal abnormalities (for example, as in children with [tuberous sclerosis](../Page/结节性硬化症.md "wikilink")). Such children may remain on the diet longer than average, and children with tuberous sclerosis who achieve seizure freedom could remain on the ketogenic diet indefinitely.\[86\]

## Variants

### Classic

[Ketogenic_diets_pie_MCT.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ketogenic_diets_pie_MCT.svg "fig:Ketogenic_diets_pie_MCT.svg")

The ketogenic diet is calculated by a [dietitian](../Page/營養師.md "wikilink") for each child. Age, weight, activity levels, culture, and food preferences all affect the meal plan. First, the energy requirements are set at 80–90% of the recommended daily amounts (RDA) for the child's age (the high-fat diet requires less energy to process than a typical high-carbohydrate diet). Highly active children or those with muscle  require more food energy than this; immobile children require less. The ketogenic ratio of the diet compares the weight of fat to the combined weight of carbohydrate and protein. This is typically 4:1, but children who are younger than 18 months, older than 12 years, or who are obese may be started on a 3:1 ratio. Fat is energy-rich, with 9 kcal/g (38 kJ/g) compared to 4 kcal/g (17 kJ/g) for carbohydrate or protein, so portions on the ketogenic diet are smaller than normal. The quantity of fat in the diet can be calculated from the overall energy requirements and the chosen ketogenic ratio. Next, the protein levels are set to allow for growth and body maintenance, and are around 1 g protein for each kg of body weight. Lastly, the amount of carbohydrate is set according to what allowance is left while maintaining the chosen ratio. Any carbohydrate in medications or [supplements](../Page/營養補充品.md "wikilink") must be subtracted from this allowance. The total daily amount of fat, protein, and carbohydrate is then evenly divided across the meals.\[87\]

A computer program such as KetoCalculator may be used to help generate recipes.\[88\] The meals often have four components: [heavy whipping cream](../Page/鮮奶油.md "wikilink"), a protein-rich food (typically meat), a fruit or vegetable and a fat such as butter, vegetable oil, or mayonnaise. Only low-carbohydrate fruits and vegetables are allowed, which excludes bananas, potatoes, peas, and corn. Suitable fruits are divided into two groups based on the amount of carbohydrate they contain, and vegetables are similarly divided into two groups. Foods within each of these four groups may be freely substituted to allow for variation without needing to recalculate portion sizes. For example, cooked broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and green beans are all equivalent. Fresh, canned, or frozen foods are equivalent, but raw and cooked vegetables differ, and processed foods are an additional complication. Parents are required to be precise when measuring food quantities on an electronic [scale](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/計重秤 "wikilink") accurate to 1 g. The child must eat the whole meal and cannot have extra portions; any snacks must be incorporated into the meal plan. A small amount of MCT oil may be used to help with constipation or to increase ketosis.\[89\]

The classic ketogenic diet is not a [balanced diet](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/均衡飲食 "wikilink") and only contains tiny portions of fresh fruit and vegetables,  cereals, and calcium-rich foods. In particular, the [B vitamins](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/维生素B "wikilink"), [calcium](../Page/钙.md "wikilink"), and [vitamin D](../Page/维生素D.md "wikilink") must be artificially supplemented. This is achieved by taking two sugar-free supplements designed for the patient's age: a  with [minerals](../Page/礦物質.md "wikilink") and [calcium](../Page/钙.md "wikilink") with vitamin D.\[90\] A typical day of food for a child on a 4:1 ratio, 1,500 kcal (6,300 kJ) ketogenic diet comprises three small meals and three small snacks:\[91\]

<table>
<caption>Sample meal plan for one day</caption>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Meal</p></th>
<th><p>Menu idea</p></th>
<th><p>Ingredients</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Breakfast</p></td>
<td><p>Egg with bacon</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>28 g egg (about half an egg)</li>
<li>11 g bacon (about half a slice)</li>
<li>37 g of 36% heavy whipping cream</li>
<li>23 g butter</li>
<li>9 g slice of apple</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Morning snack</p></td>
<td><p>Peanut butter ball (serving size: 0.5 ounce)</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>6 g peanut butter</li>
<li>9 g butter</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Lunch</p></td>
<td><p>Tuna salad</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>28 g tuna fish</li>
<li>30 g mayonnaise</li>
<li>10 g celery</li>
<li>36 g of 36% heavy whipping cream</li>
<li>15 g lettuce (one large leaf)</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Afternoon snack</p></td>
<td><p>Keto yogurt (serving size: 1.3 ounces)</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>18 g of 36% heavy whipping cream</li>
<li>17 g sour cream</li>
<li>4 g strawberries (about half of one small strawberry)</li>
</ul>
<p>* {{tsl|en|artificial sweetener</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dinner</p></td>
<td><p>Cheeseburger (no bun)</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>22 g <a href="https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/牛絞肉" title="wikilink">minced (ground) beef</a></li>
</ul>
<p>* 10 g {{tsl|en|American cheese</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Evening snack</p></td>
<td><p>Keto custard (serving size: 1.2 ounces)</p></td>
<td><ul>
<li>25 g of 36% heavy whipping cream</li>
<li>9 g egg</li>
<li>Pure, unsweetened vanilla flavouring</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### MCT oil

Normal dietary fat contains mostly long-chain triglycerides (LCTs).  (MCTs) are more ketogenic than LCTs because they generate more ketones per unit of energy when metabolised. Their use allows for a diet with a lower proportion of fat and a greater proportion of protein and carbohydrate,\[92\] leading to more food choices and larger portion sizes.\[93\] The original MCT diet developed by Peter Huttenlocher in the 1970s derived 60% of its calories from MCT oil.\[94\] Consuming that quantity of MCT oil caused abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting in some children. A figure of 45% is regarded as a balance between achieving good ketosis and minimising gastrointestinal complaints. The classical and modified MCT ketogenic diets are equally effective and differences in tolerability are not statistically significant.\[95\] The MCT diet is less popular in the United States; MCT oil is more expensive than other dietary fats and is not covered by [insurance companies](../Page/醫療保險.md "wikilink").\[96\]

### Modified Atkins

First reported in 2003, the idea of using a form of the Atkins diet to treat epilepsy came about after parents and patients discovered that the induction phase of the Atkins diet controlled seizures. The ketogenic diet team at Johns Hopkins Hospital modified the Atkins diet by removing the aim of achieving weight loss, extending the induction phase indefinitely, and specifically encouraging fat consumption. Compared with the ketogenic diet, the modified Atkins diet (MAD) places no limit on calories or protein, and the lower overall ketogenic ratio (about 1:1) does not need to be consistently maintained by all meals of the day. The MAD does not begin with a fast or with a stay in hospital and requires less dietitian support than the ketogenic diet. Carbohydrates are initially limited to 10 g per day in children or 20 g per day in adults, and are increased to 20–30 g per day after a month or so, depending on the effect on seizure control or tolerance of the restrictions. Like the ketogenic diet, the MAD requires vitamin and mineral supplements and children are carefully and periodically monitored at outpatient clinics.\[97\]

The modified Atkins diet reduces seizure frequency by more than 50% in 43% of patients who try it and by more than 90% in 27% of patients.\[98\] Few adverse effects have been reported, though cholesterol is increased and the diet has not been studied long term.\[99\] Although based on a smaller data set (126 adults and children from 11 studies over five centres), these results from 2009 compare favourably with the traditional ketogenic diet.\[100\]

### Low glycaemic index treatment

The low glycaemic index treatment (LGIT)\[101\] is an attempt to achieve the stable [blood glucose](../Page/血糖.md "wikilink") levels seen in children on the classic ketogenic diet while using a much less restrictive regimen. The hypothesis is that stable blood glucose may be one of the mechanisms of action involved in the ketogenic diet,\[102\] which occurs because the absorption of the limited carbohydrates is slowed by the high fat content.\[103\] Although it is also a high-fat diet (with approximately 60% calories from fat),\[104\] the LGIT allows more carbohydrate than either the classic ketogenic diet or the modified Atkins diet, approximately 40–60 g per day.\[105\] However, the types of carbohydrates consumed are restricted to those that have a glycaemic index lower than 50. Like the modified Atkins diet, the LGIT is initiated and maintained at outpatient clinics and does not require precise weighing of food or intensive dietitian support. Both are offered at most centres that run ketogenic diet programmes, and in some centres they are often the primary dietary therapy for adolescents.\[106\]

Short-term results for the LGIT indicate that at one month approximately half of the patients experience a greater than 50% reduction in seizure frequency, with overall figures approaching that of the ketogenic diet. The data (coming from one centre's experience with 76 children up to the year 2009) also indicate fewer side effects than the ketogenic diet and that it is better tolerated, with more palatable meals.\[107\]\[108\]

### Prescribed formulations

[Measuring_Ketocal.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Measuring_Ketocal.jpg "fig:Measuring_Ketocal.jpg") Infants and patients fed via a [gastrostomy tube](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feeding_tube "wikilink") can also be given a ketogenic diet. Parents make up a [prescribed](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/处方 "wikilink") powdered formula, such as KetoCal, into a liquid feed.\[109\] Gastrostomy feeding avoids any issues with palatability, and bottle-fed infants readily accept the ketogenic formula.\[110\] Some studies have found this liquid feed to be more efficacious and associated with lower total [cholesterol](../Page/膽固醇.md "wikilink") than a solid ketogenic diet.\[111\] KetoCal is a  containing milk protein and is supplemented with amino acids, fat, carbohydrate, vitamins, minerals and trace elements. It is used to administer the 4:1 ratio classic ketogenic diet in children over one year. The formula is available in both 3:1 and 4:1 ratios, either unflavoured or in an artificially sweetened vanilla flavour and is suitable for tube or oral feeding.\[112\] Other formula products include KetoVolve\[113\] and Ketonia.\[114\] Alternatively, a liquid ketogenic diet may be produced by combining Ross Carbohydrate Free soy formula with Microlipid and Polycose.\[115\]

### Worldwide

There are theoretically no restrictions on where the ketogenic diet might be used, and it can cost less than modern anticonvulsants. However, fasting and dietary changes are affected by religious and cultural issues. A culture where food is often prepared by grandparents or hired help means more people must be educated about the diet. When families dine together, sharing the same meal, it can be difficult to separate the child's meal. In many countries, food labelling is not mandatory so calculating the proportions of fat, protein and carbohydrate is difficult. In some countries, it may be hard to find sugar-free forms of medicines and supplements, to purchase an accurate electronic scale, or to afford MCT oils.\[116\]

In Asia, the normal diet includes rice and noodles as the main energy source, making their elimination difficult. Therefore, the MCT-oil form of the diet, which allows more carbohydrate, has proved useful. In India, religious beliefs commonly affect the diet: some patients are vegetarians, will not eat root vegetables or avoid beef. The Indian ketogenic diet is started without a fast due to cultural opposition towards fasting in children. The low-fat, high-carbohydrate nature of the normal Indian and Asian diet means that their ketogenic diets typically have a lower ketogenic ratio (1:1) than in America and Europe. However, they appear to be just as effective.\[117\]

In many developing countries, the ketogenic diet is expensive because dairy fats and meat are more expensive than grain, fruit and vegetables. The modified Atkins diet has been proposed as a lower-cost alternative for those countries; the slightly more expensive food bill can be offset by a reduction in pharmaceutical costs if the diet is successful. The modified Atkins diet is less complex to explain and prepare and requires less support from a dietitian.\[118\]

## Mechanism of action

### Seizure pathology

The brain is composed of a network of  by propagating [nerve impulses](../Page/动作电位.md "wikilink"). The propagation of this impulse from one neuron to another is typically controlled by [neurotransmitters](../Page/神经递质.md "wikilink"), though there are also [electrical pathways](../Page/电突触.md "wikilink") between some neurons. Neurotransmitters can inhibit impulse firing (primarily done by [γ-aminobutyric acid](../Page/Γ-氨基丁酸.md "wikilink"), or GABA) or they can excite the neuron into firing (primarily done by [glutamate](../Page/谷氨酸.md "wikilink")). A neuron that releases inhibitory neurotransmitters from its terminals is called an inhibitory neuron, while one that releases excitatory neurotransmitters is an excitatory neuron. When the normal balance between inhibition and excitation is significantly disrupted in all or part of the brain, a seizure can occur. The GABA system is an important target for anticonvulsant drugs, since seizures may be discouraged by increasing GABA synthesis, decreasing its breakdown, or enhancing its effect on neurons.\[119\]

The nerve impulse is characterised by a great influx of sodium ions through [channels](../Page/鈉離子通道.md "wikilink") in the neuron's [cell membrane](../Page/细胞膜.md "wikilink") followed by an efflux of potassium ions through other channels. The neuron is unable to fire again for a short time (known as the ), which is mediated by another . The flow through these [ion channels](../Page/离子通道.md "wikilink") is governed by a "gate" which is opened by either a voltage change or a  known as a [ligand](../Page/配體_\(生物化學\).md "wikilink") (such as a neurotransmitter). These channels are another target for anticonvulsant drugs.\[120\]

There are many ways in which epilepsy occurs. Examples of pathological physiology include: unusual excitatory connections within the neuronal network of the brain; abnormal neuron structure leading to altered current flow; decreased inhibitory neurotransmitter synthesis; ineffective receptors for inhibitory neurotransmitters; insufficient breakdown of excitatory neurotransmitters leading to excess; immature synapse development; and impaired function of ionic channels.\[121\]

### Seizure control

Although many hypotheses have been put forward to explain how the ketogenic diet works, it remains a mystery. Disproven hypotheses include  (high levels of acid in the blood), [electrolyte changes](../Page/電解質不平衡.md "wikilink") and [hypoglycaemia](../Page/低血糖.md "wikilink") (low [blood glucose](../Page/血糖.md "wikilink")).\[122\] Although many biochemical changes are known to occur in the brain of a patient on the ketogenic diet, it is not known which of these has an anticonvulsant effect. The lack of understanding in this area is similar to the situation with many anticonvulsant drugs.\[123\]

On the ketogenic diet, carbohydrates are restricted and so cannot provide for all the metabolic needs of the body. Instead, fatty acids are used as the major source of fuel. These are used through [fatty-acid oxidation](../Page/脂肪酸代謝.md "wikilink") in the cell's [mitochondria](../Page/線粒體.md "wikilink") (the energy-producing parts of the cell). Humans can convert some [amino acids](../Page/氨基酸.md "wikilink") into glucose by a process called [gluconeogenesis](../Page/糖异生.md "wikilink"), but cannot do this by using fatty acids.\[124\] Since amino acids are needed to make proteins, which are essential for growth and repair of body tissues, these cannot be used only to produce glucose. This could pose a problem for the brain, since it is normally fuelled solely by glucose, and most fatty acids do not cross the [blood–brain barrier](../Page/血腦屏障.md "wikilink"). However, the liver can use long-chain fatty acids to synthesise the three [ketone bodies](../Page/酮体.md "wikilink") [β-hydroxybutyrate](../Page/3-羥基丁酸.md "wikilink"), [acetoacetate](../Page/乙酰乙酸.md "wikilink") and [acetone](../Page/丙酮.md "wikilink"). These ketone bodies enter the brain and *partially* substitute for [blood glucose](../Page/血糖.md "wikilink") as a source of energy.\[125\]

The ketone bodies are possibly anticonvulsant; in [animal models](../Page/模式生物.md "wikilink"), acetoacetate and acetone protect against seizures. The ketogenic diet results in adaptive changes to brain energy metabolism that increase the energy reserves; ketone bodies are a more efficient fuel than glucose, and the number of mitochondria is increased. This may help the [neurons](../Page/神經元.md "wikilink") to remain stable in the face of increased energy demand during a seizure, and may confer a  effect.\[126\]

The ketogenic diet has been studied in at least 14 rodent animal models of seizures. It is protective in many of these models and has a different protection profile than any known anticonvulsant. Conversely, [fenofibrate](../Page/非诺贝特.md "wikilink"), not used clinically as an antiepileptic, exhibits experimental  properties in adult rats comparable to the ketogenic diet.\[127\] This, together with studies showing its efficacy in patients who have failed to achieve seizure control on half a dozen drugs, suggests a unique mechanism of action.\[128\]

Anticonvulsants suppress epileptic seizures, but they neither cure nor prevent the development of seizure susceptibility. The development of epilepsy (epileptogenesis) is a process that is poorly understood. A few anticonvulsants ([valproate](../Page/丙戊酸.md "wikilink"),  and [benzodiazepines](../Page/苯二氮䓬类.md "wikilink")) have shown antiepileptogenic properties in animal models of epileptogenesis. However, no anticonvulsant has ever achieved this in a clinical trial in humans. The ketogenic diet has been found to have antiepileptogenic properties in rats.\[129\]

## Other applications

The ketogenic diet has been studied for potential therapeutic use in various neurological disorders other than epilepsy: [Alzheimer's disease](../Page/阿茲海默症.md "wikilink") (AD), [amyotrophic lateral sclerosis](../Page/肌萎缩性脊髓侧索硬化症.md "wikilink") (ALS), [autism](../Page/自閉症.md "wikilink"), headache, [neurotrauma](../Page/腦損傷.md "wikilink"), pain, [Parkinson's disease](../Page/帕金森氏症.md "wikilink") (PD) and [sleep disorders](../Page/睡眠障碍.md "wikilink").\[130\]

Because some cancer cells are [inefficient in processing ketone bodies for energy](../Page/瓦氏效應.md "wikilink"), the ketogenic diet has also been suggested as a treatment for cancer.\[131\]\[132\] A 2018 review looked at the evidence from preclinical and clinical studies of ketogenic diets in cancer therapy. The clinical studies in humans are typically very small, with some providing weak evidence for anti-tumour effect, particularly for [glioblastoma](../Page/胶质母细胞瘤.md "wikilink"), but in other cancers and studies, no anti-tumour effect was seen. Taken together, results from preclinical studies, albeit sometimes contradictory, tend to support an anti-tumor effect rather than a pro-tumor effect of the KD for most solid cancers.\[133\]

The evidence of benefit for these conditions has not reached the level where clinical recommendations can be made.\[134\]

## 參見

  - [阿特金斯饮食法](../Page/阿特金斯饮食法.md "wikilink")
  - [酮症](../Page/酮症.md "wikilink")
  - [低碳水化合物飲食](../Page/低碳水化合物飲食.md "wikilink")
  - [食物盲從現象](../Page/食物盲從現象.md "wikilink")

## 腳註

\[135\]

\[136\]

\[137\]

\[138\]

\[139\]

\[140\] }}

## 參考文獻

## 延伸閱讀

  - Freeman JM, Kossoff EH, Freeman JB, Kelly MT. *The Ketogenic Diet: A Treatment for Children and Others with Epilepsy*. 4th ed. New York: Demos; 2007. .

## 外部連結

  - [Diet Review: Ketogenic Diet for Weight Loss](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutritionsource/healthy-weight/diet-reviews/ketogenic-diet/), from the Harvard University School of Public Health

  -
  - [Matthew's Friends](http://www.matthewsfriends.org/), a UK charity and information resource

  - [The Charlie Foundation](http://www.charliefoundation.org/), a US charity and information resource

  - [Epilepsy.com: Dietary Therapies & Ketogenic News](http://www.epilepsy.com/EPILEPSY/dietary_therapies), information and regular research news updates

  - [A Talk with John Freeman: Tending the Flame](https://web.archive.org/web/20120401230600/http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/neurology_neurosurgery/brainwaves/talk_with_john_freeman.html), an interview discussing the ketogenic diet that appeared in BrainWaves, Fall 2003, Volume 16, Number 2.

  - [Lurie Children's Hospital: How the Ketogenic Diet Works](https://web.archive.org/web/20150405175932/https://www.luriechildrens.org/en-us/care-services/specialties-services/epilepsy/programs/Pages/ketogenic-diet.aspx).

[Category:膳食](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:膳食 "wikilink") [Category:癲癇](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:癲癇 "wikilink") [Category:低糖膳食](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:低糖膳食 "wikilink") [Category:高脂膳食](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:高脂膳食 "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135. Galen, *De venae sect. adv. Erasistrateos Romae degentes*, c. 8; vol. 11.
136. Galen, *De victu attenuante*, c. 1.
137. Hippocrates, *[On the Sacred Disease](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/s:On_the_Sacred_Disease "wikilink")*, ch. 18; vol. 6.
138. Hippocrates, *Epidemics*, VII, 46; vol. 5.
139. 除非特別註明，本文中所謂的「禁食」皆指在不涉入任何固體食物的情形下，維持無熱量流質食物的攝取。
140. A *good* reduction is defined here to mean a 50–90% decrease in seizure frequency. An *excellent* reduction is a 90–99% decrease.