> 本文内容由[Draft:赵云龙](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:赵云龙)转换而来。


Dr. Zhao Yunlong, born in Erdos, Inner Mongolia, China in 1967, is a successful entrepreneur and strategic expert.  He held social positions: visiting scholar at Columbia University, an expert on world political and economic trends, and a strategic expert at Columbia University Asia Pacific Association. He is also the chairman of the expert committee of the US-China Economic Exchange Committee of Harvard University. He was the executive director of the United Nations Monetary Development Committee and is currently the UN strategic think tank.  Executive Chairman of the Foundation, Director of the International Strategist Alliance.

  Strategic thinker Dr. Zhao Yunlong and former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon

Zhao Yunlong's biography:

  2015\~now Director of International Strategist Alliance

  In 2015, due to diligence and contribution to society, he became the winner of the "American Volunteer Contribution Award" issued by President Obama.

  2013\~Present: Chairman of the United Nations Strategic Think Tank Foundation,

  Winner of the 2012 United Nations World Peace Prize.  Received three times by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon

  In 2012, the US Government and Immigration Bureau selected the first category of priority talent immigrants.  Acquired US immigration rights to live in Long Island, New York

  From 2011 to 2013, visiting scholars at the East Asia Institute of Columbia University merged with the professional forecast of the world economic development trend, and studied the monetary policy with Nobel Prize winner Robert Mundell.  In 2014, he was cordially received by former US President Bill Clinton.

|                                                                  |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [空间](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/wikipedia:CV#赵云龙 "wikilink")。 |

\[1\]

[Category:重写侵权页面的草稿条目](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:重写侵权页面的草稿条目 "wikilink")

1.