**A-235 PL-19 *努多利河***
()是[俄罗斯的第三代](../Page/俄罗斯.md "wikilink")[反弹道导弹系统与](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/反弹道导弹系统 "wikilink")[反衛星武器系统](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/反衛星武器 "wikilink")\[1\]。\[2\]\[3\]
该系统用于保卫[莫斯科地区](../Page/莫斯科.md "wikilink")。系统开发商是。用以替换1989年部署使用至今的[A-135反弹道导弹系统](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/A-135反弹道导弹系统 "wikilink")。二者主要差异是A-235使用常规弹头并机动部署。\[4\]

使用升级过的与测距雷达Don 2NP / 5N20P。制导系统类似于A-135。部署阵地未知。\[5\]
根据2018年初报告，系统不会装备核弹头。\[6\]2018年底将在莫斯科周边部署。\[7\]
{{ external media | float =right | width =210px | video1 =
[A–235发射测试](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUi9hssJ2_A),
YouTube视频 }}

A-235将部署三种不同射程的导弹：

  - 基于51T6的远程导弹，射程1500，射高800,000 m;
  - 基于58R6改进型的中程导弹，射程1000，射高120,000 m;
  - 53T6M (45T6)\[8\]近程导弹是PRS-1 ( “瞪羚”)的现代化版。\[9\]，射程350
    km，射高40,000-50,000 m.\[10\]

## 设计

Initially, the A-235 missile defense system was planned to have a
three-echelon: long-range echelon with the A-925 missile, the middle
echelon was the 58R6 firing complex, and the short-range flight was the
PRS-1M missiles (the result of the upgrade of the PRS-1 missiles) \[4\].
In the modified A-235 anti-missile and anti-space defense system, it is
planned to use two-stage anti-missiles with high-explosive and nuclear
warheads, providing it with the ability to shoot down hypersonic attack
weapons, ballistic missiles and their combat units, as well as
satellites in near space \[5\].

## Project History

The task of developing a modernized version of the A-135 missile defense
system was set out in Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the USSR
No. 585-119 dated June 7, 1978 "On the construction of the A-135
system." The system was designed by the Research Institute of Radio
Instrument Engineering (NIIRP) of the Vimpel Central Scientific
Industrial Association since 1986, general designer - A. G. Bassistov
(to 1998), chief designer - B. P. Vinogradov (after the death of A. G.
Basistov in 1998, B. P. Vinogradov replaced him as general designer of
the NIIRP). In accordance with the Decree of the Council of Ministers of
the USSR No. 661-202 of July 15, 1985, NIIRP, as a subdivision of
Vympel, is the leading enterprise of Russia in the multi-echelon ABM
system as a whole, in the ground ABM system and in the information
system for the ABM system. The first draft design of the ABM A-235
system was probably protected in 1985–1986. The Soviet government signed
the state contract No. 406/1591 of January 31, 1991 with the NIIRP to
modernize the missile defense system, work to expand the combat
capabilities of the A-135 system in terms of increasing the distant
border of the affected area, increasing the maneuverability of the
missile, and equipping new missiles combat unit (all together - OCD
"Samolet-M"). The name of the rocket-technical complex of the modernized
missile defense system of Moscow - RTTs-181M. In accordance with the
state contract, the readiness period of the upgraded version was set for
2015. According to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation
B. N. Yeltsin No. 163 dated February 17, 1995, the NIIRP was determined
as the head enterprise for the modernization and improvement of the
Moscow PRO system - the RTC-181 system - and the creation of the
RTC-181M system \[2\]. In 2011, the concern Almaz-Antey developed the
working design documentation for the shooting complex 14TS033, the
working design documentation for the first stage of the complex 14LS031
radar and the design of functional software. In 2012, the concern
Almaz-Antey held an autonomous preliminary test of the components of the
complex 14TS033. Experimental and combat training tests of the A-235
were planned to be held in 2013. At that time, experts did not point out
any fundamental differences between the A-235 and the A-135 missile
defense system \[6\]. According to foreign media reports, on November
18, 2015, the first successful launch of the Nudol missile and the third
launch in the missile test program of the complex took place.
Presumably, the deployment site of the A-235 missile defense system will
be the former base area of the A-135 missile defense system near Moscow.
According to the plan, the complex will have the capabilities to
intercept the warheads of ballistic missiles, as well as spacecraft
\[4\]. In May 2016, system elements were tested as part of the exercises
of the Military Space Forces of the Russian Federation \[7\].

## 系统组成

To solve these problems, the system was supposed to include the
following elements: \[1\] \[2\] \[8\] The letter-numeric indices of GRAU
for individual elements of the complex are indicated in brackets.

## 管理工具

Command and compute point. Automated control system. Means of detection,
selection of targets and guidance \[edit | edit code\] Radar complex
information support "Kiev". Multifunctional radar "Narva". Battle Means
\[edit | edit code\] Shooting complexes "Kivach". Ilek fire complexes.
Multichannel shooting complex "Amur". Optical-electronic aircraft-based
complex "Onega", designed for atmospheric selection of the head parts of
enemy ballistic missiles. The launch position of the anti-missile with
the launch of missiles from transport-launch containers. Anti-missiles
long range interception - A-925 (51T6), medium interception - an
unidentified modification (58R6), short-range interception - IRS-1M
(45T6), the result of the modernization of the rockets ORS-1 (53T6).
Aids \[edit | edit code\] Vehicles for the transportation and deployment
of system assets that ensure rapid deployment and coagulation of the
system on the ground. Material and technical base.

## 项目总体状态

As the military expert, reserve colonel M. Hodarenok notes: “The A-235
will be a classic version of the missile defense system. A very
well-informed source in
[MIC](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Military-Industrial_Complex_of_Russia "wikilink")
personally told me about the system: “The work is being done, and very
successfully.” Also, according to the expert, due to the secrecy of the
project, accurate information on the A-235 system is currently not
available, but it can be hypothetically assumed that the following three
principles are taken into account in the [tactical and technical
task](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tactical_and_Technical_Task "wikilink")
: first, the system must be capable of non-nuclear interception, since
the earlier anti-missile projects were equipped with a nuclear warhead,
which significantly narrowed the scope of their possible use, moreover,
the use of anti-missiles with special charges Eski meant the beginning
of [nuclear
war](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_warfare "wikilink") and
eliminates the use within the [limited armed
conflict](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_conflict "wikilink") and
other situations of this kind; secondly, the system must be mobile,
without a rigid binding to any object or center; thirdly, it must
provide interception at an altitude of at least 500–750 km, that is, at
[Low Earth
Orbit](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low_Earth_Orbit "wikilink")\].\[11\]


## 参见

  - [S-500防空导弹系统](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-500防空导弹系统 "wikilink")
  - [陸基中段防禦系統](../Page/陸基中段防禦系統.md "wikilink")

## 参考文献

[Category:导弹防御系统](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:导弹防御系统 "wikilink")

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.