[Eugène_Ferdinand_Victor_Delacroix_012.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Eugène_Ferdinand_Victor_Delacroix_012.jpg "fig:Eugène_Ferdinand_Victor_Delacroix_012.jpg")作于1840年）\]\]
**第四次十字军东征**（1202–1204）是一场由[教皇](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/教皇 "wikilink")[英诺森三世发动的军事行动](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/英诺森三世 "wikilink")，其主要成员由组成。该次[十字军东征的主要目的为进攻当时最强的](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/十字军东征 "wikilink")[伊斯兰教国家](../Page/伊斯兰教.md "wikilink")——[阿尤布王朝控制的](../Page/阿尤布王朝.md "wikilink")[埃及](../Page/埃及.md "wikilink")，以期日后夺回由[穆斯林占领的圣城](../Page/穆斯林.md "wikilink")[耶路撒冷](../Page/耶路撒冷.md "wikilink")，但一系列的经济与政治纠纷将十字军进攻的矛头指向了信仰[东正教的](../Page/正教會.md "wikilink")[拜占庭帝国首都](../Page/拜占庭帝国.md "wikilink")——[君士坦丁堡](../Page/君士坦丁堡.md "wikilink")。1204年4月13日，君士坦丁堡被十字军[攻陷](../Page/君士坦丁堡之围_\(1204年\).md "wikilink")。

1202年末，由于十字军没有足够的金钱付与威尼斯人从而渡海到埃及发动战争，他们听信了[威尼斯共和国贵族的建议转而](../Page/威尼斯共和国.md "wikilink")（今[克罗地亚](../Page/克罗地亚.md "wikilink")[扎达尔](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/扎达尔 "wikilink")）,帮助威尼斯人占领了该城。此战之后，教皇对全体十字军处以[绝罚](../Page/绝罚.md "wikilink")。1203年1月，十字军领导人与前拜占庭王子[阿莱克修斯·安格洛斯达成协议](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/阿莱克修斯四世 "wikilink")，十字军前往君士坦丁堡帮助其被废除的父亲[伊萨克·安格洛斯恢复皇位](../Page/伊萨克二世·安格洛斯.md "wikilink")，如若事成，阿莱克修斯许以十字军必要的军事和经济援助。同年6月23日，十字军的主要部队抵达君士坦丁堡，较小规模的特遣部队则继续前往[阿卡](../Page/阿卡_\(以色列\).md "wikilink")。

1203年8月，继[第一次围困君士坦丁堡之后](../Page/君士坦丁堡之围_\(1203年\).md "wikilink")，阿莱克修斯与其父伊萨克共同登基成为共治皇帝。由于前任皇帝出逃时带走了大量黄金，导致阿莱克修斯上台后国库空虚，为兑现其与十字军的承诺，阿莱克修斯大肆熔铸城内的圣像以获得黄金白银，这一举措很快激起了民众的不满。应民愤而起的叛乱军队于1204年1月推翻了阿莱克修斯的统治，同时十字军的经济援助亦就此断绝。随着次月8日阿莱克修斯被反叛势力谋杀，十字军领导人决定彻底占领君士坦丁堡。最终在同年四月，君士坦丁堡被攻陷，十字军对城中的居民进行了肆无忌惮的掠夺和持续三天的血腥屠杀。

经此一役，拜占庭帝国覆灭，由此而诞生了数个[殘存國家](../Page/殘存國家.md "wikilink")，其中较著名的有[尼西亚帝国](../Page/尼西亚帝国.md "wikilink")，[特拉比松帝国和](../Page/特拉比松帝国.md "wikilink")[伊庇魯斯專制國](../Page/伊庇魯斯專制國.md "wikilink")。而十字军亦建立了以[拉丁帝国为主导的数个](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/拉丁帝国 "wikilink")[十字军国家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/十字军国家 "wikilink")，但这些政权的建立迅速导致了拉丁帝国与尼西亚帝国以及保加利亚帝国之间的。尼西亚帝国最终于1261年收复君士坦丁堡，并恢复了拜占庭帝国的统治。

第四次十字军东征是致使[東西教會大分裂不可逆转的重要事件之一](../Page/東西教會大分裂.md "wikilink")，加深了东正教与天主教之间的裂痕。惨痛的战争对已日薄西山的拜占庭帝国造成了不可挽回的打击，并为接下来几个世纪穆斯林征服[安纳托利亚与](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/安纳托利亚 "wikilink")[巴尔干半岛铺平了道路](../Page/巴尔干半岛.md "wikilink")。

## 背景

自公元1世纪[罗马帝国占领耶路撒冷以来](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/罗马帝国 "wikilink")，该城一直由罗马帝国管辖。后于公元4世纪，东罗马帝国皇帝[君士坦丁一世控制该城期间](../Page/君士坦丁大帝.md "wikilink")，君士坦丁将其设为天主教中心，并建造[圣墓教堂](../Page/圣墓教堂.md "wikilink")。但在公元7世纪，耶路撒冷相继被[萨珊王朝和](../Page/萨珊王朝.md "wikilink")[阿拉伯帝国攻陷](../Page/阿拉伯帝国.md "wikilink")，于此期间，伊斯兰教[先知](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/伊斯兰教的先知 "wikilink")[穆罕默德在](../Page/穆罕默德.md "wikilink")621年于该城[夜行登霄](../Page/夜行登霄.md "wikilink")，因此耶路撒冷亦被穆斯林奉为圣城。直到11世纪晚期，由教宗[乌尔班二世发起的](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/乌尔班二世 "wikilink")[第一次十字军东征才将圣城重新占领](../Page/第一次十字军东征.md "wikilink")，由此亦拉开了总计9次十字军东征的序幕。1099年，[法兰克人于第一次东征后在](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/法兰克人 "wikilink")[黎凡特南部建立](../Page/黎凡特.md "wikilink")[耶路撒冷王国](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/耶路撒冷王国 "wikilink")，但在1187年被阿尤布[苏丹](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/苏丹_\(称谓\) "wikilink")[萨拉丁所击败](../Page/萨拉丁.md "wikilink")。其建立的穆斯林王朝极大地震撼了西方欧洲的[天主教会](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/天主教会 "wikilink")，传闻[烏爾巴諾三世受此打击而死](../Page/烏爾巴諾三世.md "wikilink")，但其死亡时间与该事件不符\[1\]。此外十字军的势力范围亦被缩小至仅有的三个沿海城市：[泰尔](../Page/泰尔.md "wikilink")、[的黎波里以及](../Page/的黎波里_\(黎巴嫩\).md "wikilink")[安条克](../Page/安提阿.md "wikilink")\[2\]。

1189年至1192年间进行的[第三次十字军东征帮助耶路撒冷王国收复了大部分土地](../Page/第三次十字军东征.md "wikilink")，包括战略要地阿卡和[雅法](../Page/雅法.md "wikilink")，但未能重新占领耶路撒冷。十字军的长期存在亦使得[拜占庭帝国与西方封建国家的关系愈发紧张](../Page/拜占庭帝国.md "wikilink")\[3\]。以君士坦丁堡为中心，前两次十字军的东征行动使得东西方基督教文明的差异更加明显。拉丁人（拜占庭帝国对天主教会人士的称谓，因其坚持进行）认为拜占庭帝国对于战争贸易和外交的热衷是堕落的表现，其统治阶级对于穆斯林的容忍和同化政策亦是对信仰的背叛。并且就受过良好教育和富有的拜占庭人而言，他们相较于拉丁人在文化和社会关系上具有更明显的优势\[4\]。

第四次东征结束之时，君士坦丁堡已建城874年，是当时基督教世界最大且最复杂的城市\[5\]。城市结构保留了古典罗马时期的风格，基础设施包括公共浴场、广场、纪念碑以及排水渠。在该城人口最多的时期约有50万居民\[6\]。其地理位置几乎处在数个重要的中世纪城市之中心，并且扼守[黑海与](../Page/黑海.md "wikilink")[地中海之间的交通要道](../Page/地中海.md "wikilink")\[7\]，是主导远至[波斯](../Page/波斯.md "wikilink")、[印度以及](../Page/印度.md "wikilink")[中国贸易路线的商业中心](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中国 "wikilink")\[8\]。
因此，对于新近发展起来的西方国家，尤其是威尼斯共和国，拜占庭帝国既是强力的竞争对手亦是诱人的掠夺目标。

第三次十字军东征的领导者之——[红胡子腓特烈曾公开联合塞尔维亚人](../Page/腓特烈一世_\(神圣罗马帝国\).md "wikilink")、[保加利亚人](../Page/保加利亚第二帝国.md "wikilink")、拜占庭叛徒以及[塞尔柱穆斯林一起反对拜占庭帝国](../Page/塞尔柱帝国.md "wikilink")，并一度寻求教皇支持\[9\]。但腓特烈溺死于1190年的东征途中，其所率部队迅速瓦解，只留下从海上发动进攻的英国人和法国人同萨拉丁部队作战。英国国王[理查一世在东征途中占领了](../Page/理查一世.md "wikilink")[塞浦路斯](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/塞浦路斯 "wikilink")，但并未返还给拜占庭帝国，而是卖给了[圣殿骑士团作为其根据地](../Page/圣殿骑士团.md "wikilink")。1195年，腓特烈的继承人[亨利六世为一雪父辈之耻宣布将发动新一轮的东征行动](../Page/亨利六世_\(神圣罗马帝国\).md "wikilink")，最终于1197年夏天，由2位大主教、9位主教和5位公爵以及大量日耳曼骑士和贵族所组成的军队出发前往[巴勒斯坦地区](../Page/巴勒斯坦地区.md "wikilink")，并在不久后占领了[赛达和](../Page/赛达_\(黎巴嫩城市\).md "wikilink")[贝鲁特](../Page/贝鲁特.md "wikilink")。但随着同年9月传来亨利六世于[墨西拿逝世的消息](../Page/墨西拿.md "wikilink")，许多贵族和神职人员退出了队伍并返回欧洲。由于缺乏领导，剩余的部队在遇到埃及士兵时惊慌失措，土崩瓦解后的队伍最终逃回其位于泰尔的船队。

1195年，由当时[拜占庭皇帝](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/拜占庭皇帝列表 "wikilink")[伊萨克二世的弟弟阿莱克修斯所发起的一场宫廷政变废除了伊萨克的王位](../Page/伊萨克二世·安格洛斯.md "wikilink")，阿莱克修斯继位为[阿莱克修斯三世](../Page/阿历克塞三世.md "wikilink")，后者对伊萨克处以（叛国罪的传统惩罚，因其相较于绞刑更为人道）并流放。由于在战场上毫无建树，伊萨克亦被认为是一名无能的统治者，其在位时缩减财政开支，将海军外包给威尼斯人，甚至将武器和物资赠予其支持者等行为极大地削弱了帝国的防御力\[10\]。但新继任的阿莱克修斯同样昏庸。为了巩固自己的地位，阿莱克修斯掏空国库大肆赏赐军队官员，进而导致拜占庭财政破产。帝国首席海军大臣（阿莱克修斯妻子之姐夫）则将海军的所有装备甚至小到钉子全部出售以赚取钱财。

## 东征开始

1198年1月，[英诺森三世继位为新一任教皇](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/英诺森三世 "wikilink")，其在同年八月发表的[教宗诏书中声称](../Page/教宗诏书.md "wikilink")：将把组织新一轮的十字军东征列为其首要教务\[11\]\[12\]。但教皇的呼吁鲜有响应，此时的日耳曼人正与教皇对立，而英法则在进行[百年战争](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/英法百年战争 "wikilink")。尽管如此，依靠着[马恩河畔讷伊的](../Page/马恩河畔讷伊.md "wikilink")的传道，最终在一场由[香槟伯爵](../Page/香槟_\(行省\).md "wikilink")于1199年举办的中，一只十字军在[阿斯费尔德成立](../Page/阿斯费尔德.md "wikilink")\[13\]，其领导者为西奥博尔德三世，但西奥博尔德在1201年去世，领导权随后由意大利人接管\[14\]。

波尼法西斯与其他领导者在1200年向[威尼斯共和国](../Page/威尼斯共和国.md "wikilink")，[热那亚共和国以及其他城邦派出使节商讨帮助十字军前往埃及的合约](../Page/热那亚共和国.md "wikilink")，派出的使节中包括后来的历史学家。早期针对巴勒斯坦地区的十字军东征主要目的是阻止[安那托利亞地区穆斯林的扩张](../Page/安那托利亞.md "wikilink")，而埃及现在是地中海东部主要的穆斯林大国，但也是威尼斯共和国的重要贸易伙伴\[15\]。而埃及发动进攻显然海路最近，因此十字军需要建造一支舰队。热那亚共和国对此次东征并不热衷，但威尼斯共和国则在1201年3月的谈判中签订协议答应帮助十字军运送33500名士兵前往埃及，其中包括4500名[骑士](../Page/骑士.md "wikilink")（以及相同数量的马匹）、9000名（[存疑](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/存疑 "wikilink")）和20000名[步兵](../Page/步兵.md "wikilink")。签订的协议要求威尼斯共和国在一年之内完成工作，建造大量船只并培训愿意服务十字军的船员，同时限制威尼斯城的商业活动。

1202年10月初从[威尼斯出发的大部分十字军都来自法国境内](../Page/威尼斯.md "wikilink")，包括[布卢瓦](../Page/布卢瓦.md "wikilink")、[香槟](../Page/香槟_\(行省\).md "wikilink")、[亞眠](../Page/亞眠.md "wikilink")、、[法兰西岛以及](../Page/法蘭西島大區.md "wikilink")[勃艮第地区](../Page/勃艮第公國.md "wikilink")。欧洲其他数个地区诸如[佛兰德](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/佛兰德 "wikilink")、[蒙菲拉托等亦派出了部队参与东征](../Page/蒙菲拉托.md "wikilink")。除此以外还有来自[神圣罗马帝国](../Page/神圣罗马帝国.md "wikilink")的主教马丁与[哈伯斯塔特](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/哈伯斯塔特 "wikilink")，他们与由[威尼斯总督](../Page/威尼斯总督.md "wikilink")[恩里科·丹多洛领导的威尼斯军队组成联盟](../Page/恩里科·丹多洛.md "wikilink")。所有战前准备最终于1203年6月24日完成，十字军随即整装前往阿尤布首都[开罗](../Page/开罗.md "wikilink")。此外，教皇英诺森严令禁止十字军袭击基督教国家\[16\]。

## 扎拉之围

[upright=1.35所作](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Pallucchini_Tintoretto_590_1.jpg "wikilink")\]\]

由于十字军内部没有明确的协议规定所有人都需从威尼斯起航，因此许多应征者选择从其他港口出发，特别是[佛兰德](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/佛兰德 "wikilink")、[马赛和](../Page/马赛.md "wikilink")[热那亚](../Page/热那亚.md "wikilink")。1202年5月，大部分十字军在威尼斯完成会合，总计12000余人（4000至5000名骑士以及8000名步兵），但相较于协议中商定的33500人仍相距甚远\[17\]。而威尼斯人则完成了他们的职责，共为十字军准备了50艘[桨帆船和](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/桨帆船 "wikilink")450艘运输船，足够运送约定的3万余人\[18\]。根据协议内容，十字军应当向威尼斯人支付85000[马克](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/马克_\(货币单位\) "wikilink")（一说94000马克\[19\]），但前者起初却只能拿出35000马克，因此威尼斯人在总督丹多洛的带领下威胁十字军声称若不支付余下款项将对十字军部队予以拘留，尽管十字军被榨取得分文不剩，但依然仅凑齐14000马克\[20\]。这使得近一年来几乎断绝商业活动，全心全意完成协议约定的威尼斯人损失惨重。除此以外，为约束这一万余人的部队，威尼斯还需要14000甚至2万到3万的男性参与管制（当时威尼斯城的人口为6万至10万），这进一步地加重了威尼斯人的经济负担\[21\]\[22\]。

由于集结人数过少，十字军无法支付约定数额的款项，丹多洛与威尼斯人不得不思考如何处置这批十字军部队。在[聖馬爾谷聖殿宗主教座堂举行的公开仪式中](../Page/聖馬爾谷聖殿宗主教座堂.md "wikilink")，丹多洛提议十字军通过威胁[亚得里亚海沿岸各港口与城镇的手段来偿还债务](../Page/亚得里亚海.md "wikilink")，这一提议最终导致了[達爾馬提亞的扎拉被十字军围攻](../Page/達爾馬提亞.md "wikilink")\[23\]（[来源翻译确认](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/来源翻译确认 "wikilink")）。在12世纪上半叶，扎拉在经济上一直被威尼斯统治，但在1181年扎拉背离了威尼斯转而与以及[伊姆雷所统治的](../Page/伊姆雷.md "wikilink")[匈牙利王国结盟](../Page/匈牙利王国.md "wikilink")\[24\]\[25\]\[26\]，随后威尼斯发起军事行动试图恢复对扎拉的控制，但被其挫败。到1202年，扎拉在经济上实现了独立，并受到盟国保护\[27\]。

伊姆雷曾于1195年或1196年宣誓加入东征，并且许多东征的参与者亦反对进攻扎拉，诸如领导的部队拒绝参与行动并返回了法国。但作为教皇特使参与东征的主教——[卡普阿的](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/卡普阿 "wikilink")为防止东征失败，赞同了十字军的此次行动。突闻事态进展的教皇十分震惊，以绝罚之手段相威胁，书信一封予十字军领导者试图挽回紧张局势\[28\]。信中，为维护教皇在拜占庭的权威，英诺森三世禁止天主教的十字军对东正教教徒犯下任何残暴行为\[29\]。但这封信于同年11月10日或11日到达十字军部队后，由于领导者担心绝罚之惩处会涣散军心，因此该封信并未公诸于众，而此时十字军对扎拉的围攻正在进行中。扎拉的居民在城墙以及自家窗户上悬挂标有十字架的横幅以表明自己天主教徒的身份，但此举并未奏效，在短暂的围攻后，扎拉于同年11月24日被攻陷。十字军部队与威尼斯人随后鱼贯而入，大肆抢劫和掠夺城中财物。与威尼斯人的约定已经完成，十字军领导者决定将部队先行驻扎在扎拉，再考虑下一步行动\[30\]。威尼斯人此后还拆除了扎拉的防御工事。

1203年2月，考虑到部分十字军部队是受威尼斯人胁迫参与围攻，教皇取消了对十字军中非威尼斯人的绝罚\[31\]。

## 君士坦丁堡战事

[upright=1.35所作](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Gustave_dore_crusades_dandolo_preaching_the_crusade.jpg "wikilink")\]\]

威尼斯共和国与拜占庭帝国之间的贸易竞争以及发生于1182年的[拉丁大屠杀使得近年来两国关系十分紧张](../Page/拉丁大屠杀.md "wikilink")。且据记载，总督丹多洛曾于1171年威尼斯针对拜占庭的远征行动中被[曼努埃尔一世命人用玻璃弄瞎了双眼](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/曼努埃尔一世_\(拜占庭\) "wikilink")，因此丹多洛本人很可能对拜占庭帝国抱有个人敌意\[32\]\[33\]。

, meanwhile, had left the fleet before it sailed from Venice, to visit
his cousin . The reasons for his visit are a matter of debate; he may
have realized the Venetians' plans and left to avoid excommunication, or
he may have wanted to meet with the Byzantine prince [Alexios IV
Angelos](../Page/阿历克塞四世.md "wikilink"), Philip's brother-in-law and the
son of the recently deposed Byzantine emperor [Isaac II
Angelos](../Page/伊萨克二世·安格洛斯.md "wikilink"). Alexios IV had recently fled
to Philip in 1201 but it is unknown whether or not Boniface knew he was
at Philip's court. There, Alexios IV offered to pay the entire debt owed
to the Venetians, give 200,000 silver marks to the crusaders, 10,000
Byzantine professional troops for the Crusade, the maintenance of 500
knights in the Holy Land, the service of the Byzantine navy to transport
the Crusader Army to Egypt, and the placement of the [Eastern Orthodox
Church](../Page/正教會.md "wikilink") under the authority of the
[Pope](../Page/教宗.md "wikilink"), if they would sail to Byzantium and
topple the reigning emperor [Alexios III
Angelos](../Page/阿历克塞三世.md "wikilink"), brother of Isaac II.
This tempting offer, for an enterprise that was short on funds, reached
the leaders of the Crusade on 1 January 1203 as they wintered at
Zara.\[34\] Doge Dandolo was a fierce supporter of the plan; however, in
his earlier capacity as an ambassador to Byzantium and someone who knew
the finer details of how Byzantine politics worked, it is likely he knew
the promises were false and there was no hope of any Byzantine emperor
raising the money promised, let alone raising the troops and giving the
church to the Holy See. Count Boniface agreed and Alexios IV returned
with the Marquess to rejoin the fleet at
[Corfu](../Page/克基拉島.md "wikilink") after it had sailed from
Zara. Most of the rest of the crusade's leaders, encouraged by bribes
from Dandolo,\[35\] eventually accepted the plan as well. However, there
were dissenters. Led by [Reynold of
Montmirail](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reynold_of_Montmirail "wikilink"),
those who refused to take part in the scheme to attack Constantinople
sailed on to Syria.\[36\] The remaining fleet of 60 [war
galleys](../Page/槳帆船.md "wikilink"), 100 , and 50 large  (the entire
fleet was manned by 10,000 Venetian oarsmen and marines) sailed in late
April 1203.\[37\] In addition, 300 siege engines were brought along on
board the fleet.\[38\] Hearing of their decision, the Pope hedged and
issued an order against any more attacks on Christians unless they were
actively hindering the Crusader cause, but he did not condemn the scheme
outright.\[39\]

When the Fourth Crusade arrived at Constantinople on 23 June 1203, the
city had a population of approximately 500,000 people,\[40\] a garrison
of 15,000 men (including 5,000
[Varangians](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/瓦良格人 "wikilink")), and a
fleet of 20 galleys.\[41\]\[42\]\[43\]\[44\] For both political and
financial reasons, the permanent garrison of Constantinople had been
limited to a relatively small force, made up of elite guard and other
specialist units. At previous times in Byzantine history when the
capital had come under direct threat, it had been possible to assemble
reinforcements from frontier and provincial forces. On this occasion,
the suddenness of the danger posed by the Fourth Crusade put the
defenders at a serious disadvantage.\[45\] The main objective of the
crusaders was to place Alexios IV on the Byzantine throne so that they
could receive the rich payments he had promised them.  delivered this
ultimatum to the Lombard envoy sent by the Emperor [Alexios III
Angelos](../Page/阿历克塞三世.md "wikilink"), who was the pretender's uncle
and had seized the throne from the pretender's father Isaac II. The
citizens of Constantinople were not concerned with the cause of the
deposed emperor and his exiled son; hereditary right of succession had
never been adopted by the empire and a palace coup between brothers was
not considered illegitimate in the way it would have been in the West.
First the crusaders attacked and were repulsed from the cities of
[Chalcedon](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/迦克墩 "wikilink") and
[Chrysopolis](../Page/于斯屈达尔.md "wikilink"), suburbs of the great city.
They won a cavalry skirmish in which they were outnumbered, defeating
500 Byzantines with just 80 Frankish knights.\[46\]

### Siege of July 1203

[Crusaders_attack_Constantinople.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Crusaders_attack_Constantinople.jpg "fig:Crusaders_attack_Constantinople.jpg")
To take the city by force, the crusaders first needed to cross the
[Bosphorus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/伊斯坦布尔海峡 "wikilink"). About 200
ships, horse transports, and
[galleys](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/galley "wikilink") delivered the
crusading army across the narrow strait, where Alexios III had lined up
the Byzantine army in battle formation along the shore, north of the
suburb of Galata. The Crusader knights charged straight out of the horse
transports, and the Byzantine army fled south. The Crusaders followed
and attacked the , which held the northern end of the massive chain that
blocked access to the [Golden
Horn](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/金角湾 "wikilink"). As they laid
siege to the Tower, the Byzantines counterattacked with some initial
success. The crusaders rallied, and the Byzantines retreated to the
Tower, but the crusaders were able to follow the soldiers through the
Gate and took the Tower. The Golden Horn now lay open to the Crusaders,
and the Venetian fleet entered. The Crusaders sailed alongside
Constantinople with 10 galleys to display the would-be Alexios IV, but
from the [walls of the city](../Page/君士坦丁堡城牆.md "wikilink") citizens
taunted the puzzled crusaders, who had been led to believe that they
would rise up to welcome the young pretender Alexios as a
liberator.\[47\]

On 11 July, the Crusaders took positions opposite the  on the northwest
corner of the city. Their first attempts were repulsed, but on 17 July,
with four divisions attacking the land walls while the Venetian fleet
attacked the sea walls from the Golden Horn, the Venetians took a
section of the wall of about 25 towers, while the Varangian guard held
off the Crusaders on the land wall. The Varangians shifted to meet the
new threat, and the Venetians retreated under the screen of fire. The
fire destroyed about  of the city and left some 20,000 people
homeless.\[48\]

Alexios III finally took offensive action, leading 17 divisions from the
St. Romanus Gate, vastly outnumbering the crusaders. Alexios III's army
of about 8,500 men faced the Crusaders' seven divisions (about 3,500
men), but his courage failed, and the Byzantine army returned to the
city without a fight.\[49\] The unforced retreat and the effects of the
fire greatly damaged morale, and the disgraced Alexios III abandoned his
subjects, slipping out of the city and fleeing to  in
[Thrace](../Page/色雷斯.md "wikilink").\[50\] The Imperial officials
quickly deposed their runaway emperor and restored Isaac II, robbing the
crusaders of the pretext for attack.\[51\] The crusaders were now in the
quandary of having achieved their stated aim while being debarred from
the actual objective, namely the reward that the younger Alexios had
(unbeknownst to the Byzantines) promised them. The crusaders insisted
that they would only recognize the authority of Isaac II if his son was
raised to co-emperor, and on 1 August the latter was crowned as Alexios
Angelos IV, co-emperor.\[52\]

### Further attacks on Constantinople

[PriseDeConstantinople1204PalmaLeJeune.JPG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:PriseDeConstantinople1204PalmaLeJeune.JPG "fig:PriseDeConstantinople1204PalmaLeJeune.JPG")
Alexios IV realised that his promises were hard to keep. Alexios III had
managed to flee with 1,000 pounds of gold and some priceless jewels,
leaving the imperial treasury short on funds. At that point the young
emperor ordered the destruction and melting of valuable Byzantine and
Roman icons in order to extract their gold and silver, but even then he
could only raise 100,000 silver marks. In the eyes of all Greeks who
knew of this decision, it was a shocking sign of desperation and weak
leadership, which deserved to be punished by God. The Byzantine
historian  characterized it as "the turning point towards the decline of
the Roman state".\[53\]

Forcing the populace to destroy their icons at the behest of an army of
foreign schismatics did not endear Alexios IV to the citizens of
Constantinople. In fear of his life, the co-emperor asked the crusaders
to renew their contract for another six months, to end by April 1204.
Alexios IV then led 6,000 men from the Crusader army against his rival
Alexios III in Adrianople.\[54\] During the co-emperor's absence in
August, rioting broke out in the city and a number of Latin residents
were killed. In retaliation armed Venetians and other crusaders entered
the city from the Golden Horn and attacked a
[mosque](../Page/清真寺.md "wikilink") (Constantinople at this time
had a sizable Muslim population), which was defended by Muslim and
Byzantine residents . In order to cover their retreat the Westerners
instigated the "Great Fire", which burnt from 19 to 21 August,
destroying a large part of Constantinople and leaving an estimated
100,000 homeless.

In January 1204, the blinded and incapacitated Isaac II died, probably
of natural causes.\[55\] Opposition to his son and co-emperor Alexios IV
had grown during the preceding months of tension and spasmodic violence
in and around Constantinople. The  elected a young noble  as emperor, in
what was to be one of the last known acts of this ancient institution.
However he declined the appointment and sought church sanctuary.\[56\]

A nobleman [Alexios
Doukas](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexios_V_Doukas "wikilink")
(nicknamed Mourtzouphlos) became the leader of the anti-crusader faction
within the Byzantine leadership. While holding the court rank of
*protovestilarios*, Doukas had led Byzantine forces during the initial
clashes with the crusaders, winning respect from both military and
populace. He was accordingly well-placed to move against the
increasingly isolated Alexios IV, whom he overthrew, imprisoned, and had
strangled in early February. Doukas then was crowned as Emperor Alexios
V. He immediately moved to have the city fortifications strengthened and
summoned additional forces to the city.\[57\]

The crusaders and Venetians, incensed at the murder of their supposed
patron, demanded that Mourtzouphlos honour the contract that Alexios IV
had promised. When the Byzantine emperor refused, the Crusaders
assaulted the city once again. On 8 April Alexios V's army put up a
strong resistance, which did much to discourage the crusaders.\[58\] The
Byzantines hurled large projectiles onto the enemy siege engines,
shattering many of them. Bad weather conditions were a serious hindrance
to the crusaders. Fierce wind blew from the shore and prevented most of
the ships from drawing close enough to the walls to launch an assault.
Only five of the wall's towers were actually engaged and none of these
could be secured; by mid-afternoon it was evident that the attack had
failed.\[59\]

The Latin clergy discussed the situation amongst themselves and settled
upon the message they wished to spread through the demoralised army.
They had to convince the men that the events of 9 April were not God's
judgment on a sinful enterprise: the campaign, they argued, was
righteous and with proper belief it would succeed. The concept of God
testing the determination of the crusaders through temporary setbacks
was a familiar means for the clergy to explain failure in the course of
a campaign.\[60\] The clergy's message was designed to reassure and
encourage the Crusaders. Their argument that the attack on
Constantinople was spiritual revolved around two themes. First, the
Greeks were traitors and murderers since they had killed their rightful
lord, Alexios IV.\[61\] The churchmen used inflammatory language and
claimed that "the Greeks were worse than the Jews",\[62\] and they
invoked the authority of God and the pope to take action.

Although Innocent III had again demanded that they not attack, the papal
letter was suppressed by the clergy, and the crusaders prepared for
their own attack, while the Venetians attacked from the sea. Alexios V's
army stayed in the city to fight, along with the imperial bodyguard, the
[Varangians](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/瓦良格人 "wikilink"), but Alexios
V himself fled during the night. An attempt was made to find a further
replacement emperor from amongst the Byzantine nobility, but the
situation had now become too chaotic for either of the two candidates
who came forward to find sufficient support.

### Sack of Constantinople

[Eugène_Ferdinand_Victor_Delacroix_012.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Eugène_Ferdinand_Victor_Delacroix_012.jpg "fig:Eugène_Ferdinand_Victor_Delacroix_012.jpg"),
1840). The most infamous action of the Fourth Crusade was the sack of
the Orthodox Christian city of
[Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡.md "wikilink").\]\] On 12 April
1204, the weather conditions finally favoured the crusaders. A strong
northern wind aided the Venetian ships in coming close to the walls, and
after a short battle approximately seventy crusaders managed to enter
the city. Some were able to knock holes in the walls, large enough for
only a few knights at a time to crawl through; the Venetians were also
successful at scaling the walls from the sea, though there was fighting
with the Varangians. The Anglo-Saxon "axe bearers" had been amongst the
most effective of the city's defenders, but they now attempted to
negotiate higher wages from their Byzantine employers, before dispersing
or surrendering.\[63\] The crusaders captured the  section of the city
in the northwest and used it as a base to attack the rest of the city.
While attempting to defend themselves with a wall of fire, however, they
burned even more of the city. This second fire left 15,000 people
homeless.\[64\] The crusaders completely took the city on 13 April.

The crusaders sacked Constantinople for three days, during which many
ancient Greco-Roman and medieval Byzantine works of art were stolen or
ruined. Many of the civilian population of the city were killed and
their property looted. Despite the threat of excommunication, the
crusaders destroyed, defiled and looted the city's churches and
monasteries.\[65\]\[66\] It was said that the total amount looted from
Constantinople was about 900,000 silver marks. The Venetians received
150,000 silver marks that was their due, while the crusaders received
50,000 silver marks. A further 100,000 silver marks were divided evenly
up between the crusaders and Venetians. The remaining 500,000 silver
marks were secretly kept back by many crusader knights.\[67\]\[68\]

in *Byzantium and Europe* gives a vivid account of the sack:

When Innocent III heard of the conduct of his pilgrims he was filled
with shame and rage, and he strongly rebuked them.

According to a , the empire was apportioned between Venice and the
leaders of the crusade, and the [Latin
Empire](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/拉丁帝国 "wikilink") of Constantinople
was established. Boniface was not elected as the new emperor, although
the citizens seemed to consider him as such; the Venetians thought he
had too many connections with the former empire because of his brother,
, who had been married to , empress in the 1170s and 1180s. Instead they
placed  on the throne. Boniface went on to found the [Kingdom of
Thessalonica](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/萨洛尼卡王国 "wikilink"), a vassal
state of the new Latin Empire. The Venetians also founded the  in the
Aegean Sea. Meanwhile, Byzantine refugees founded their own [rump
states](../Page/殘存國家.md "wikilink"), the most notable of these being the
[Empire of Nicaea](../Page/尼西亚帝国.md "wikilink") under [Theodore
Laskaris](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/狄奥多尔一世_\(拜占庭帝国\) "wikilink") (a
relative of Alexios III), the [Empire of
Trebizond](../Page/特拉比松帝国.md "wikilink"), and the [Despotate
of Epirus](../Page/伊庇魯斯專制國.md "wikilink").

## Outcome

[LatinEmpire2.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:LatinEmpire2.png "fig:LatinEmpire2.png"),
[Empire of Nicaea](../Page/尼西亚帝国.md "wikilink"), and [Despotate of
Epirus](../Page/伊庇魯斯專制國.md "wikilink") after 1204\]\]

Only a relatively small number of the members of the Fourth Crusade
finally reached their originally intended goal of the Holy Land.
Research indicates that about a tenth of the knights who had taken the
cross in Flanders arrived to reinforce the remaining Christian states
there, plus about half of those from the Île-de-France.\[69\] During the
ensuing half century the unstable Latin Empire siphoned off much of
Europe's crusading energy. The legacy of the Fourth Crusade was the deep
sense of betrayal felt by the Greek Christians. With the events of 1204,
the schism between the Churches in the East and West was not just
complete but also solidified.\[70\]

As an epilogue to the event, Pope Innocent III, the man who had
unintentionally launched the ill-fated expedition, spoke against the
crusaders thus:

Nevertheless, the Pope accepted the new situation. When the crusaders
took some of the piles of money, jewels, and gold that they had captured
in the sack of Constantinople back to Rome, Innocent III accepted the
stolen items. Furthermore, at the [Fourth Council of the
Lateran](../Page/第四次拉特朗公會議.md "wikilink") the Pope welcomed and
recognised to it western (Catholic) prelates from Sees established in
the conquered lands thus recognising their legitimacy over formerly
Orthodox areas.

The Latin Empire was soon faced with a number of enemies. Besides the
individual Byzantine Greek states in
[Epirus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/伊庇鲁斯地区 "wikilink") and
[Nicaea](../Page/尼西亚帝国.md "wikilink"), there were also the [Bulgarian
Empire](../Page/保加利亚第二帝国.md "wikilink") and the [Seljuk
Sultanate](../Page/魯姆蘇丹國.md "wikilink"). The Greek states fought for
supremacy against both the Latins and each other.\[71\]

Several of the major Greek and Latin protagonists in the event died or
were killed in the years following the fall of the city. The betrayal
and blinding of [Murtzuphlus](../Page/阿历克塞五世_\(拜占庭帝国\).md "wikilink") by
Alexios III led to his capture by the Latins and his execution in 1205.
Not long after, Alexios III was captured by Boniface and sent to exile
in Southern Italy. He died in Nicaea in 1211. In 1205,   the Latin
Crusaders with his [Cuman](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/库曼人 "wikilink")
light cavalry.\[72\] On 14 April 1205, one year after the conquest of
the city,  was decisively defeated and captured at the  by the
[Bulgarians](../Page/保加利亞人.md "wikilink"). In 1205 or 1206, the
Bulgarian Emperor  mutilated him and left him to die, while others
suggest he was kept captive in the famous  in the Bulgarian capital
[Veliko Turnovo](../Page/大特尔诺沃.md "wikilink"), where he died under
unknown circumstances. The Venetian Doge Dandolo died in May 1205. On 4
September 1207, the Bulgarians killed Boniface in an ambush. He was
succeeded by his infant son , who ruled until he reached adulthood but
was eventually defeated by , the [despot of
Epirus](../Page/伊庇魯斯專制國.md "wikilink") and a relative of
Murtzuphlus. The Kingdom of Thessalonica was restored to Byzantine rule
in 1224.\[73\]

Various Latin-French lordships throughout Greece in particular, the
[Duchy of Athens](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/雅典公国 "wikilink") and the
[principality of the Morea](../Page/亚该亚侯国.md "wikilink") provided
cultural contacts with western Europe and promoted the study of Greek.
There was also a French cultural work, notably the production of a
collection of laws, the **. The ** appeared in both
[French](../Page/法语.md "wikilink") and
[Greek](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/希腊语 "wikilink") (and later Italian
and Aragonese) versions. Impressive remains of crusader castles and
[Gothic churches](../Page/哥特式建筑.md "wikilink") can still be seen in
Greece. Nevertheless, the Latin Empire always rested on shaky
foundations. Constantinople was re-captured by the Nicaean Greeks under
[Michael VIII Palaeologos](../Page/米海尔八世.md "wikilink") in 1261, and
commerce with Venice was re-established.

During the middle of the 15th century, the [Latin
Church](../Page/拉丁禮教會.md "wikilink") ( [Roman Catholic
Church](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_Catholic_Church "wikilink"))
tried to organise a new crusade aimed at restoring the Eastern Roman or
Byzantine Empire, which was gradually being torn down by the advancing
Ottoman Turks. The attempt failed, however, as the vast majority of
Greek civilians and a growing part of their clergy refused to recognize
and accept the [short-lived near-union of the Churches of East and
West](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/佛羅倫斯大公會議 "wikilink") signed at the
[Council of Florence and
Ferrara](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/佛羅倫斯大公會議 "wikilink")
by the Ecumenical . The Greek population, reacting to the Latin
conquest, believed that the Byzantine civilization that revolved around
the Orthodox faith would be more secure under Ottoman Islamic rule .
Overall, religious-observant Greeks preferred to sacrifice their
political freedom and political independence in order to preserve their
faith's traditions and rituals in separation from the [Roman
See](../Page/聖座.md "wikilink").

In the late 14th and early 15th centuries, "crusades" on a limited scale
were organised by the Kingdoms of [Hungary](../Page/匈牙利.md "wikilink"),
[Poland](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/波兰 "wikilink"),
[Wallachia](../Page/瓦拉幾亞.md "wikilink"), and
[Serbia](../Page/塞尔维亚.md "wikilink"). These were not the
traditional expeditions aimed at the recovery of Jerusalem but rather
defensive campaigns intended to prevent further expansion to the west by
the [Ottoman Empire](../Page/奥斯曼帝国.md "wikilink").\[74\] During the
Ottoman [siege of Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡的陷落.md "wikilink") in
1453, up to 2,000 [Venetian](../Page/威尼斯共和国.md "wikilink") and
[Genoese](../Page/热那亚.md "wikilink") volunteers formed part of the
approximately 9,000 defenders of the city. \[75\]

## Legacy

The prominent medievalist  wrote in 1954: "There was never a greater
crime against humanity than the Fourth Crusade."\[76\] The controversy
that has surrounded the Fourth Crusade has led to diverging opinions in
academia on whether its objective was indeed the capture of
Constantinople. The traditional position, which holds that this was the
case, was challenged by Donald E. Queller and  in their book *The Fourth
Crusade* (1977).\[77\]

Constantinople was considered as a bastion of Christianity that defended
Europe from the advancing forces of Islam, and the Fourth Crusade's sack
of the city dealt an irreparable blow to this eastern bulwark. Although
the Greeks retook Constantinople after 57 years of Latin rule, the
Byzantine Empire had been crippled by the Fourth Crusade. Reduced to
Constantinople, north-western Anatolia, and a portion of the southern
Balkans, the empire fell to the Ottoman Turks who captured the city in
1453.\[78\]

Eight hundred years later, [Pope John Paul
II](../Page/若望·保祿二世.md "wikilink") twice expressed sorrow
for the events of the Fourth Crusade. In 2001, he wrote to , [Archbishop
of Athens](../Page/希臘教會雅典總主教區.md "wikilink"), "It is tragic that the
assailants, who set out to secure free access for Christians to the Holy
Land, turned against their brothers in the faith. The fact that they
were Latin Christians fills Catholics with deep regret."\[79\] In 2004,
while [Bartholomew I](../Page/巴爾多祿茂_\(普世牧首\).md "wikilink"), [Patriarch
of Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡普世牧首.md "wikilink"), was visiting the
[Vatican](../Page/宗座宮.md "wikilink"), John Paul II asked, "How can we
not share, at a distance of eight centuries, the pain and
disgust."\[80\] This has been regarded as an apology to the Greek
Orthodox Church for the massacres perpetrated by the warriors of the
Fourth Crusade.\[81\]

In April 2004, in a speech on the 800th anniversary of the city's
capture, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I formally accepted the
apology. "The spirit of reconciliation is stronger than hatred," he said
during a liturgy attended by Roman Catholic Archbishop [Philippe
Barbarin](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/菲利普·巴尔巴兰 "wikilink") of Lyon,
France. "We receive with gratitude and respect your cordial gesture for
the tragic events of the Fourth Crusade. It is a fact that a crime was
committed here in the city 800 years ago." Bartholomew said his
acceptance came in the spirit of
[Pascha](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/復活節 "wikilink"). "The spirit of
reconciliation of the resurrection... incites us toward reconciliation
of our churches."\[82\]

The Fourth Crusade was one of the last of the major crusades to be
launched by the Papacy, though it quickly fell out of Papal control.
After bickering between laymen and the papal legate led to the collapse
of the [Fifth Crusade](../Page/第五次十字军东征.md "wikilink"), later crusades
were directed by individual monarchs, mostly against Egypt. One
subsequent crusade, [the Sixth](../Page/第六次十字军东征.md "wikilink"),
succeeded in restoring Jerusalem to Christian rule for 15 years.

## In fiction and music

  - The Fourth Crusade is depicted in [Poul
    Anderson](../Page/波尔·安德森.md "wikilink")'s novel ** from
    the point of view of a 20th-century [time
    traveler](../Page/时间旅行.md "wikilink") who saves the life of
    a Byzantine girl during the carnage and falls in love with her.
  - [Neal Stephenson](../Page/尼尔·斯蒂芬森.md "wikilink")'s and 's novel
    *[The Rise and Fall of
    D.O.D.O](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Rise_and_Fall_of_D.O.D.O "wikilink")*
    deals with events leading up to and during the [Sack of
    Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡之围_\(1204年\).md "wikilink") from the
    perspective of modern time travellers.
  - [Umberto Eco](../Page/翁贝托·埃可.md "wikilink")'s novel ** begins
    shortly after the Sack of Constantinople.
  - The second volume of 's trilogy ** titled *The Golden Horn* also
    depicts the Fourth Crusade and Sack, showing it from its prelude
    through the aftermath in a historical fiction/fantasy setting that
    captures elements of both the Latin and Greek sides of the conflict.
  - ** is the title of British death metal band 's fourth studio album
    released in 1992.

## See also

  - [Alexios III](../Page/阿历克塞三世.md "wikilink")

  - [Alexios IV](../Page/阿历克塞四世.md "wikilink")

  - [Alexios V](../Page/阿历克塞五世_\(拜占庭帝国\).md "wikilink")

  - [Cumans](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/库曼人 "wikilink")

  -

  - [Byzantine Empire](../Page/拜占庭帝国.md "wikilink")

  - [Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡.md "wikilink")

  - [Crusades](../Page/十字軍東征.md "wikilink")

  - [Crusader states](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/十字軍國家 "wikilink")

  - [Fifth crusade](../Page/第五次十字军东征.md "wikilink")

  - during the Fourth Crusade

  -
  - [Latin Empire of
    Constantinople](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/拉丁帝国 "wikilink")

  - [Massacre of the Latins](../Page/拉丁大屠杀.md "wikilink")

  - [Pope Innocent III](../Page/依諾增爵三世.md "wikilink")

  - [Principality of Achaea](../Page/亚该亚侯国.md "wikilink")

  - [Second Bulgarian Empire](../Page/保加利亚第二帝国.md "wikilink")

## References

### Notes

### Bibliography

#### Primary sources

  -
  -
  -
  -
  - (see also
    [excerpts](http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/source/clari1.html) from
    another translation)

  - (excerpts from several contemporary accounts)

  -
  -
#### Secondary sources

  - "Crusades". *[Encyclopædia
    Britannica](../Page/大英百科全书.md "wikilink")*, 2006.

  - Angold, Michael, *The Fourth Crusade*, Harlow: Pearson, 2003

  - Charles Brand. *Byzantium Confronts the West, 1180–1204*, Cambridge
    MA: Harvard University Press, 1968

  - Godfrey, John. *1204: The Unholy Crusade*. Oxford: Oxford University
    Press, 1980

  - Harris, Jonathan, *Byzantium and the Crusades*, Bloomsbury, 2nd ed.,
    2014.

  - Harris, Jonathan, 'Collusion with the infidel as a pretext for
    military action against Byzantium', in *Clash of Cultures: the
    Languages of Love and Hate*, ed. S. Lambert and H. Nicholson,
    Turnhout: Brepols, 2012, pp. 99–117

  - Hindley, Geoffrey. *The Crusades: A History of Armed Pilgrimage and
    Holy War*. New York, NY: Carroll and Graf Publishers, 2003. New
    edition: *The Crusades: Islam and Christianity in the Struggle for
    World Supremacy*. New York, NY: Carroll and Graf Publishers, 2004.

  - Lilie, Ralph-Johannes. *Byzantium and the Crusader States,
    1096–1204*. Translated by J. C. Morris and Jean E. Ridings.
    Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1993; originally published in 1988.

  -
  - , and Donald E. Queller. *The Fourth Crusade: The Conquest of
    Constantinople*. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press,
    1997

  - Marin, Serban. [A Humanist Vision regarding the Fourth Crusade and
    the State of the Assenides. The Chronicle of Paul Ramusio (Paulus
    Rhamnusius)](https://www.webcitation.org/query?url=http://www.geocities.com/serban_marin/ramusio01.html&date=2009-10-26+21:14:13),
    *Annuario del Istituto Romano di Cultura e Ricerca Umanistica* vol.
    2 (2000), pp. 51–57.

  - McNeal, Edgar, and Robert Lee Wolff. [The Fourth
    Crusade](http://libtext.library.wisc.edu/cgi-bin/HistCrusades/HistCrusades-idx?type=turn&entity=HistCrusades000200020179&byte=430841&isize=M),
    in *A History of the Crusades* (edited by  and others), vol. 2,
    Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1962

  - Nicol, Donald M. *Byzantium and Venice: A Study in Diplomatic and
    Cultural Relations*, Cambridge University Press, 1992.

  - Noble, Peter S. [Eyewitnesses of the Fourth Crusade – the War
    against Alexius
    III](http://www.deremilitari.org/RESOURCES/PDFs/NOBLE.PDF), *Reading
    Medieval Studies* v.25, 1999.

  - Phillips, Jonathan. *The Fourth Crusade and the sack of
    Constantinople*. New York: Viking, 2004. .

  - Queller, Donald E. *The Latin Conquest of Constantinople*. New York,
    NY; London, U.K.; Sydney, NSW; Toronto, ON: John Wiley and Sons,
    Inc., 1971.

  - Queller, Donald E., and Susan J. Stratton. "A Century of Controversy
    on the Fourth Crusade", in *Studies in Medieval and Renaissance
    History* v. 6 (1969): 237–77; reprinted in Donald E. Queller,
    *Medieval Diplomacy and the Fourth Crusade*. London: Variorum
    Reprints, 1980.

  - . *Crusades: The Illustrated History*

## Further reading

  - Angold, Michael. *The Fourth Crusade: Event and Context*. Harlow,
    NY: Longman, 2003.
  - Bartlett, W. B. *An Ungodly War: The Sack of Constantinople and the
    Fourth Crusade*. Stroud: Sutton Publishing, 2000.
  - Harris, Jonathan, *Byzantium and the Crusades*, London: Bloomsbury,
    2nd ed., 2014.
  - Harris, Jonathan, "The problem of supply and the sack of
    Constantinople", in *The Fourth Crusade Revisited*, ed. Pierantonio
    Piatti, Vatican City: Libreria Editrice Vaticana, 2008, pp. 145–54.
    .
  - Kazhdan, Alexander "Latins and Franks in Byzantium", in Angeliki E.
    Laiou and Roy Parviz Mottahedeh (eds.), *The Crusades from the
    Perspective of Byzantium and the Muslim World*. Washington, D.C.:
    Dumbarton Oaks, 2001: 83–100.
  - Kolbaba, Tia M. "Byzantine Perceptions of Latin Religious ‘Errors’:
    Themes and Changes from 850 to 1350", in Angeliki E. Laiou and Roy
    Parviz Mottahedeh (eds.), *The Crusades from the Perspective of
    Byzantium and the Muslim World* Washington, D.C.: Dumbarton Oaks,
    2001: 117–43.
  - Nicolle, David. *The Fourth Crusade 1202–04: The betrayal of
    Byzantium*, Osprey Campaign Series \#237. Osprey Publishing. 2011. .

## External links

  - [Byzantine & Christian Museum / Franks and Latins in
    Byzantium](http://www.byzantinemuseum.gr/en/permanentexhibition/byzantine_world/Franks_Latins_in_Byzantium/)

[Category:Fourth_Crusade](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Fourth_Crusade "wikilink")
[Category:1200s_conflicts](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1200s_conflicts "wikilink")
[Category:13th-century_crusades](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:13th-century_crusades "wikilink")
[Category:1200s_in_the_Byzantine_Empire](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1200s_in_the_Byzantine_Empire "wikilink")
[Category:君士坦丁堡](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:君士坦丁堡 "wikilink")
[Category:East–West_Schism](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:East–West_Schism "wikilink")
[Category:Latin_Empire](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Latin_Empire "wikilink")
[Category:Principality_of_Achaea](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Principality_of_Achaea "wikilink")

1.  , *Byzantium: The Decline and Fall*, (1995; repr., London: Folio
    Society, 2003), 169

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.  Norman Davies, page 311, "Vanished Kingdoms. The History of
    Half-forgotten Europe",

8.

9.  John Julius Norwich, *Byzantium: The Decline and Fall*, (1995;
    repr., London: Folio Society, 2003), 169–70

10. John Julius Norwich, *Byzantium: The Decline and Fall*, (1995;
    repr., London: Folio Society, 2003)

11.

12.

13.

14.

15. Encyclopædia Britannica 15th Edition, page 306 Macropaedia Volume 5

16. Philips Hughes, "Innocent III & the Latin East," *History of the
    Church*, Sheed & Ward, 1948, vol. 2, p. 370.

17. D. E. Queller, *The Fourth Crusade The Conquest of Constantinople*,
    232

18. D. E. Queller, *The Fourth Crusade The Conquest of Constantinople*,
    17

19.

20. Robert de Clari, La Prise de Constantinople, xi–xii, in Hopf,
    Chroniques Greco-Romaines, pp. 7–9. Old French.

21.
22. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 57.

23. Zara is the today the city of [Zadar](../Page/扎達爾.md "wikilink") in
    [Croatia](../Page/克罗地亚.md "wikilink"); it was called "Jadera" in
    [Latin](../Page/拉丁语.md "wikilink") documents and "Jadres" by
    [French](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/法国 "wikilink") crusaders. The
    Venetian (Italian) "Zara" is a later derivation of the contemporary
    vernacular "Zadra".

24. [Person Page 10465](http://thepeerage.com/p10465.htm#i104647).
    thePeerage.com.

25. Madden, Thomas F., and Donald E. Queller. *The Fourth Crusade: The
    Conquest of Constantinople*. Philadelphia, PA: University of
    Pennsylvania Press, 1997.

26. [Emeric (king of
    Hungary)](http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/185757/Emeric).
    Britannica Online Encyclopedia.

27. Phillips, *The Fourth Crusade*, pp. 110–11.

28. Philip Hughes, "Innocent III & the Latin East," *[History of the
    Church](http://www.ewtn.com/library/CHISTORY/HUGHHIST.TXT)*, vol. 2,
    p. 371, Sheed & Ward, 1948.

29.

30.

31. Runciman, Steven. *The Kingdom of Acre and the Later Crusades,*
    (1954; repr., London: Folio Society, 1994), 98

32.

33. [Madden
    (2003)](https://books.google.com/books?id=sk9lvXUMHpYC&lpg=PA64&ots=Rte5ctmKXg&q=%22recorded%20in%20the%20chronicle%20of%20novgorod%22#v=snippet&q=%22recorded%20in%20the%20chronicle%20of%20novgorod%22&f=false)

34.

35.
36.
37.

38. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 113.

39. Runciman, Steven. *The Kingdom of Acre and the Later Crusades*,
    (1954; repr., London: Folio Society, 1994), 99

40.
41. D. Queller, *The Fourth Crusade The Conquest of Constantinople*, 185

42. Phillips, *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 157.

43.  *A Concise History of Byzantium*, 187

44. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 159.

45.

46. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 162.

47. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 164.

48. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 176.

49. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 177.

50. Runciman, Steven. *The Kingdom of Acre and the later Crusades*,
    (1954; repr., London: Folio Society, 1994), 100

51.
52.
53. Phillips, *The Fourth Crusade*

54.
55.
56. *Chambers's Encyclopaedia*, vol. II, London, 1868, p. 471

57.

58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.

64. Phillips. *The Fourth Crusade*, p. 209.

65.
66.
67. Konstam, *Historical Atlas of The Crusades*, 162

68. W. Treadgold, *A History of Byzantine State and Society*, 663

69.

70. page 310, volume 5; "Encyclopædia Britannica, Fifteenth Edition
    1983,

71.

72. Bulgarian Folk Customs, Mercia MacDermott, pg 27

73.

74. page 308, volume 5; "Encyclopædia Britannica, Fifteenth Edition
    1983,

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.