**赫尔松军区**（），原名及正式名称为**克利马塔**
（）是[拜占庭帝国位于](../Page/拜占庭帝国.md "wikilink")[克里米亚南部的一个](../Page/克里米亚.md "wikilink")[军区](../Page/军区制.md "wikilink")，首府为[赫尔松](../Page/克森尼索.md "wikilink")。

军区正式建立于830年代早期，是[黑海重要的商业中心](../Page/黑海.md "wikilink")。尽管城市于980年代被毁，但是军区很快就恢复并繁荣了起来，直至1204年[拜占庭帝国被十字军分裂](../Page/第四次十字军东征.md "wikilink")，之后成为了[特拉比松帝国的一部分](../Page/特拉比松帝国.md "wikilink")。

## 历史

该地区大约在6世纪[查士丁尼一世时期为拜占庭控制](../Page/查士丁尼一世.md "wikilink")，但在7世纪末期，The
region had been under [Roman](../Page/羅馬帝國.md "wikilink") and later
Byzantine imperial control until the early 8th century, but passed under
[Khazar](../Page/可萨人.md "wikilink") control thereafter. Byzantine
authority was re-established by Emperor
[Theophilos](../Page/狄奥斐卢斯.md "wikilink") (r. 829–842), who
displayed interest in the northern littoral of the Black Sea and
especially his relations with the Khazars. Traditional scholarship dates
the establishment of Cherson as the seat of a theme in ca.
833/4,\[1\]\[2\] but more recent researchers have linked it with the
Byzantine mission to construct the new Khazar capital at  in 839, and
identify , the architect of Sarkel, as the theme's first governor
(*[strategos](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/將軍_\(古希臘\) "wikilink")*) in
840/1.\[3\] The new province was at first called *ta Klimata*, "the
regions/districts", but due to the prominence of the capital Cherson, by
ca. 860 it was known even in official documents as the "Theme of
Cherson".\[4\]\[5\]

The province played an important role in Byzantine relations with the
Khazars and later, after the Khazar Khaganate's collapse, with the
[Pechenegs](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/佩切涅格人 "wikilink") and the
[Rus'](../Page/羅斯人.md "wikilink"). It was a center for  rather than
military activity, since the military establishment in the theme seems
to have been small and to have chiefly consisted of a locally raised
militia. Its weakness is underlined by the stipulation, in the Byzantine
treaties with the Rus' of  and , of the latter's undertaking to defend
it against the [Volga Bulgars](../Page/伏尔加保加利亚.md "wikilink").\[6\]

Cherson prospered greatly during the 9th–11th centuries as a centre of
Black Sea commerce, despite the city's destruction by [Vladimir of
Kiev](../Page/弗拉基米爾一世·斯維亞托斯拉維奇.md "wikilink") in 988/9.\[7\]\[8\] The
city recovered quickly: the city's fortifications were restored and
extended to the harbour in the early 11th century. At the same time,
possibly after the defeat of  in 1016, the theme was extended over the
eastern Crimea as well, as evidenced by the styling of a certain Leo
Aliates as "*strategos* of Cherson and
[Sougdaia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/蘇達克_\(克里米亞\) "wikilink")" in
1059. The region however was lost again in the late 11th century to the
[Cumans](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/库曼人 "wikilink").\[9\] Almost
nothing is known of Cherson in the 12th century, pointing to a rather
tranquil period. Cherson and its province remained under Byzantine
control until the dissolution of the Empire by the [Fourth
Crusade](../Page/第四次十字军东征.md "wikilink") in 1204, when they passed under
the sovereignty of the breakaway [Empire of
Trebizond](../Page/特拉比松帝国.md "wikilink") (see ).\[10\]\[11\]

## Administration

[Seal_of_Nikephoros_Kassiteras,_protospatharios_and_strategos_of_Cherson.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Seal_of_Nikephoros_Kassiteras,_protospatharios_and_strategos_of_Cherson.png "fig:Seal_of_Nikephoros_Kassiteras,_protospatharios_and_strategos_of_Cherson.png")''
of Cherson\]\] The Theme of Cherson appears to have been organized in
typical fashion, with the full array of thematic officials, of whom a **
of  is known at the turn of the 11th century, as well as the ubiquitous
fiscal and customs officials known as **.\[12\] The cities of the theme,
however, appear to have retained considerable autonomy in their own
government, as exemplified by Cherson itself, which was administered by
the local magnates (*[archontes](../Page/執政官_\(雅典\).md "wikilink")*)
under a *proteuon* ("the first").\[13\]\[14\]\[15\] Cherson also
retained the right to issue its own , having resumed minting under
Emperor [Michael III](../Page/米海尔三世.md "wikilink") (r. 842–867), and was
for a long time the only  outside
[Constantinople](../Page/君士坦丁堡.md "wikilink").\[16\]\[17\] Its
autonomy is also evidenced by the fact that the imperial government paid
annual subsidies (*pakta*) to the city leaders in the fashion of allied
rulers, and in the advice of Emperor [Constantine
Porphyrogennetos](../Page/君士坦丁七世.md "wikilink") (r. 913–959) in his **
to the local *strategos* concerning the possibility of a revolt in the
city: he was to cease payment of the subsidies and relocate to some
other city in the theme.\[18\] In the late 11th century, the theme was
governed by a **.\[19\]

## 参考资料

### 脚注

### 书籍

  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
[Category:拜占庭帝国军区](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:拜占庭帝国军区 "wikilink")

1.  .

2.  .

3.

4.
5.
6.

7.
8.
9.

10.
11.
12.

13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.