**Don't be a jerk**. This is a
[corollary](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:corollary "wikilink") of
[ignore all
rules](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:Wikipedia:Ignore_all_rules "wikilink"),
and most behavioural rules are special cases of this one.

## Fundamentals

[thumbtime=1](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Its-okay-to-not-like-things.webm "wikilink")

"Don't be a jerk" is a fundamental rule of all social spaces. Every
other policy for getting along with others is a special case of this
rule. Although nobody is expected to ban or block somebody for jerkitude
(as that itself would be an instance of such), it's still a bad idea to
be a jerk. So don't be one. If a significant number of reasonable people
suggest, whether bluntly or politely, that you are being one, the odds
are good that you are not entirely in the right.

Being right about an issue does *not* mean you're behaving properly\!
Jerks are often right — but they're still jerks. If there's something in
what they say that's worth hearing, it goes unheard because no one likes
listening to them. It doesn't matter how right they are.

This is not the same as just being uncivil or impolite (though
incivility and rudeness often accompany it). One can be perfectly civil
and follow every rule of etiquette and still be wrong. Standard moves,
for example, include such things as willfully (but politely) drawing
attention to minor errors in spelling or grammar of an interlocutor's
comments, disregarding the Chomskian
[distinction](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:Linguistic_competence#Competence_versus_performance "wikilink")
between language competence and language performance. Truly being civil
and polite means that you show respect for others (such as in not
needlessly pointing out grammar issues), even when right.

Respect others even when you disagree. Sometimes the best weapon is to
disarm your opponent by disarming yourself (via civil and constructive
behaviour), transforming an opponent into a collaborator. [Subduing
one's opponent without
fighting](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:The_Art_of_War "wikilink")
is not only the highest form of mastery, it is also a winning solution
for all editors involved as well as the encyclopedia. Benjamin Franklin
wrote: *He that has once done you a Kindness will be more ready to do
you another, than he whom you yourself have obliged.*

## Coping with accusations of jerkitude

If you've been labeled a jerk, especially if you have been told this by
several people in a particular community, it might be wise to consider
the possibility that the accusations hold at least some measure of
truth. If you suspect that you may have a problem, the first step is to
become aware of it. Ask yourself what behaviours might be causing this
perception, and if you can't work it out, politely ask those that
perceive it to explain or clarify. Once you have determined which
behaviours are causing the problem, try changing them and your mode of
presentation. In particular, identify the harsh manners in your
communications and replace them with softer ones.

Honestly examine your motivations. Are you here to contribute and make
the project good? Or is your goal really to find fault, get your views
across, or be the one in control? Perhaps secretly inside you even enjoy
the thrill of a little confrontation. This may not make you a bad
person, but to everyone who is busily trying to build something great,
you become an impediment. People get frustrated, rancour ensues, the
atmosphere changes, and the whole project suffers. Are you here to give,
or to take?

## How to deal with others

Telling someone "don't be a jerk" is generally wrong — especially if
it's true. It upsets the other person and reduces the chance that
they'll listen to what you say.

Focus on behaviour, not on individuals. Say what you want and why you
want it. Say why you think the other person's behaviour is
counterproductive. [Assume good
faith](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:w:WP:AGF "wikilink") to the
maximum extent possible. If you don't understand why someone is doing
something, ask. Don't rush to complain until you are sure that good
faith negotiations can't work. Understand before insisting on being
understood.

Remember that your perception can be wrong. If the other person is
writing in an unfamiliar language, or has a different cultural
background, you may misunderstand their intentions.

Above all, be genuine. Don't ask questions when you know the answer.
Don't say you want one thing if you want another. Don't try to persuade
people of things that aren't true. Do not respond to jerkitude [in
kind](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:Norm_of_reciprocity "wikilink"),
no matter how tempting it may be.

## History

This rule was originally titled "Don't be a dick" and was also known as
"Wil Wheaton's Law", coined by [Wil
Wheaton](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/w:Wil_Wheaton "wikilink") at PAX
in August 2007.\[1\]

## See also

<div style="float: right; margin: 0.5em 0 1em 0.5em; border: 1px solid #cfefcf; background-color: #ffffff; padding: 2px;">

<div style="background-color: #6eb4eb; text-align: center; font-size: larger;">

**Audio**

</div>

This essay also exists in an audio version.[<File:Spoken-Dont> be a
dick.ogg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Spoken-Dont_be_a_dick.ogg "fig:File:Spoken-Dont be a dick.ogg")

</div>

  - [Do not disrupt Wikipedia to make a
    point](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:Wikipedia:Do_not_disrupt_Wikipedia_to_illustrate_a_point "wikilink")
    - Wikipedia behavioral guideline
  - [Don't be
    dense](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_be_dense "wikilink") -
    Wikimedia essay
  - [*The No Asshole
    Rule*](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:The_No_Asshole_Rule "wikilink")
    - a guide to building a civilized workplace, by Robert Sutton.
  - [No personal
    attacks](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:Wikipedia:No_personal_attacks "wikilink")
    - Wikipedia policy
  - [WikipediAhimsa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/WikipediAhimsa "wikilink")
    - Wikimedia essay
  - [Advice for
    hotheads](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:w:Wikipedia:Advice_for_hotheads "wikilink")
    – Wikipedia essay
  - [Don't be
    high-maintenance](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:w:Wikipedia:Don't_be_high-maintenance "wikilink")
    – Wikipedia essay
  - [Asshole John
    rule](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/:en:w:Wikipedia:Asshole_John_rule "wikilink")
    – Wikipedia essay (on policy effects of people being jerks)

## External links

  - [High-testosterone people reinforced by others' anger, new study
    finds](http://www.ns.umich.edu/htdocs/releases/story.php?id=3209)
    (University of Michigan news service)

  -
## References

<references/>

}

1.