***Formica rufa***, also known as the **red wood ant**, **southern wood
ant**, or **horse ant**, is a
[boreal](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/boreal_ecosystem "wikilink")
member of the [*Formica rufa*
group](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formica_rufa_group "wikilink") of
[ants](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ant "wikilink"), and is the [type
species](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/type_species "wikilink") for that
group. It is native to Europe and Anatolia\[1\] but is also found in
North America,\[2\] in both coniferous and broad-leaf broken woodland
and parkland.\[3\] Workers are bicolored red and brownish-black, with a
dorsal dark patch on the head and promensonotum,\[4\] and are
polymorphic, measuring 4.5–9 mm in length.\[5\] They have large
mandibles and like many other ant species they are able to spray [formic
acid](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/formic_acid "wikilink") from their
abdomens as a defence.\[6\] Formic acid was first extracted in 1671 by
the English naturalist [John
Ray](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Ray "wikilink") by distilling a
large number of crushed ants of this species.\[7\]

## Description

[ForrmicaRufaWithCaterpillar.JPG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:ForrmicaRufaWithCaterpillar.JPG "fig:ForrmicaRufaWithCaterpillar.JPG")
[Formica_rufa_on_patrol.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Formica_rufa_on_patrol.jpg "fig:Formica_rufa_on_patrol.jpg")

Nests of these ants are large, conspicuous, dome-shaped mounds of grass,
twigs, or conifer needles,\[8\] often built against a rotting stump,
usually situated in woodland clearings where the sun's rays can reach
them. Large colonies may have 100,000 to 400,000 workers and 100
queens.\[9\] *F. rufa* is highly polygynous and often readopts
postnuptial queens from its own mother colony, leading to old,
multigallery nests which may contain well over a hundred egg-producing
females. These colonies can often measure several metres in height and
diameter. *F. rufa* is aggressively territorial, and often attacks and
removes other ant species from the area. [Nuptial
flights](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuptial_flight "wikilink") take
place during the springtime and are often marked by savage battles
between neighbouring colonies as territorial boundaries are
re-established.\[10\] New nests are established by budding from existing
nests in the spring,\[11\] or by the mechanism of temporary social
parasitism, the hosts being species of the *F. fusca* group, notably
*[F. fusca](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formica_fusca "wikilink")* and
*[F. lemani](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formica_lemani "wikilink")*,
although incipient *F. rufa* colonies have also been recorded from nests
of *[F.
glebaria](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formica_glebaria "wikilink")*,
*[F.
cunnicularia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formica_cunicularia "wikilink")*,
and similar species including the genus
*[Lasius](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lasius "wikilink")*. An *F.
rufa* queen ousts the nest's existing queen, lays eggs, and the existing
workers care for her offspring until t

1.

2.
3.

4.
5.
6.
7.

8.
9.
10.

11.