***多头绒泡菌*** (学名：Physarum
polycephalum)是一种生活在腐烂的树叶、木头等阴凉潮湿环境的[黏菌](../Page/黏菌.md "wikilink")。像普通的黏菌一样，它对光线敏感，光线可以阻止它，光线也是触发[孢子生长的一种因素](../Page/孢子.md "wikilink")。

## 特征

多头绒泡菌可以用肉眼观察到，通常为黄色，以[真菌](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/真菌 "wikilink")[孢子](../Page/孢子.md "wikilink")、[细菌等](../Page/细菌.md "wikilink")[微生物为食](../Page/微生物.md "wikilink")。它是一种最容易培养的真核微生物，在许多研究中用做[模式生物](../Page/模式生物.md "wikilink")，比如变形虫运动和[移動性
(生物體)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/移動性_\(生物體\) "wikilink")。\[1\]

## 生命周期

多头绒泡菌的一生分成两个阶段：营养期和繁殖期。
营养期是[原生质流动的活跃状态](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/原生质 "wikilink")，由原生质的流动网络和散布在其中的许多细胞核组成。管状结构在前部相对于行进方向形成片状结构，而在后部形成网状结构。它在这种状态去寻找食物，找到后用原生质包裹，分泌消化酶并消化它。\[2\]

If environmental conditions cause the plasmodium to  during feeding or
migration, *Physarum* will form a . The sclerotium is basically hardened
 tissue that serves as a dormant stage, protecting Physarum for long
periods of time. Once favorable conditions resume, the plasmodium
reappears to continue its quest for food.

As the food supply runs out, the plasmodium stops feeding and begins its
reproductive phase. Stalks of [孢子囊](../Page/孢子囊.md "wikilink") form from
the plasmodium; it is within these structures that
[减数分裂](../Page/减数分裂.md "wikilink") occurs and spores are
formed. Sporangia are usually formed in the open so that the spores they
release will be spread by wind currents.

Spores can remain dormant for years if need be. However, when
environmental conditions are favorable for growth, the spores
[发芽](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/发芽 "wikilink") and release either
flagellated or amoeboid swarm cells (motile stage); the swarm cells then
fuse together to form a new plasmodium.

## Streaming behavior

The movement of *P. polycephalum* is termed shuttle streaming. Shuttle
streaming is characterized by the rhythmic back-and-forth flow of the
protoplasm; the time interval is approximately two minutes. The forces
of the streaming vary for each type of microplasmodium.

The force in amoeboid microplasmodia is generated by contraction and
relaxation of a membranous layer probably consisting of actin (type of
filament associated with contraction). The filament layer creates a ,
over which the protoplasm flows within limits of the cell periphery.

The force behind streaming in the dumbbell-shaped microplasmodia is
generated by volume changes in both the periphery of the cell and in the
invagination system of the cell membrane.

## Situational behavior

[P._polycephalum_islands.TIF](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:P._polycephalum_islands.TIF "fig:P._polycephalum_islands.TIF")

*Physarum polycephalum* has been shown to exhibit characteristics
similar to those seen in single-celled creatures and
[真社會性](../Page/真社會性.md "wikilink") insects. For example,
a team of Japanese and Hungarian researchers have shown *P.
polycephalum* can solve the [最短路问题](../Page/最短路问题.md "wikilink"). When
grown in a maze with oatmeal at two spots, *P. polycephalum* retracts
from everywhere in the maze, except the shortest route connecting the
two food sources.\[3\] When presented with more than two food sources,
*P. polycephalum* apparently solves a more complicated . With more than
two sources, the amoeba also produces efficient networks.\[4\] In a 2010
paper, oatflakes were dispersed to represent
[東京都](../Page/東京都.md "wikilink") and 36 surrounding
towns.\[5\]\[6\] *P. polycephalum* created a network similar to the
existing train system, and "with comparable efficiency, fault tolerance,
and cost". Similar results have been shown based on road networks in the
[英国](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/英国 "wikilink")\[7\] and the
[伊比利亚半岛](../Page/伊比利亚半岛.md "wikilink") (i.e.,
[西班牙](../Page/西班牙.md "wikilink") and
[葡萄牙](../Page/葡萄牙.md "wikilink")).\[8\] Some researchers
claim that *P. polycephalum* is even able to solve the
[NP困难](../Page/NP困难.md "wikilink")  problem.\[9\]

*P. polycephalum* can not only solve these computational problems, but
also exhibits some form of memory. By repeatedly making the test
environment of a specimen of *P. polycephalum* cold and dry for
60-minute intervals, [北海道大學](../Page/北海道大學.md "wikilink") biophysicists
discovered that the slime mould appears to anticipate the pattern by
reacting to the conditions when they did not repeat the conditions for
the next interval. Upon repeating the conditions, it would react to
expect the 60-minute intervals, as well as testing with 30- and
90-minute intervals.\[10\]\[11\]

*P. polycephalum* has also been shown to dynamically re-allocate to
apparently maintain constant levels of different nutrients
simultaneously.\[12\]\[13\] In particular, specimen placed at the center
of a [培养皿](../Page/培养皿.md "wikilink") spatially re-allocated over
combinations of food sources that each had different
[蛋白质](../Page/蛋白质.md "wikilink")–[糖类](../Page/糖类.md "wikilink")
ratios. After 60 hours, the slime mould area over each food source was
measured. For each specimen, the results were consistent with the
hypothesis that the amoeba would balance total protein and carbohydrate
intake to reach particular levels that were invariant to the actual
ratios presented to the slime mould.

As the slime mould does not have any nervous system that could explain
these intelligent behaviours, there has been considerable
interdisciplinary interest in understanding the rules that govern its
behaviour. Scientists are trying to model the slime mold using a number
of simple, distributed rules. For example, *P. polycephalum* has been
modeled as a set of differential equations inspired by electrical
networks. This model can be shown to be able to compute shortest
paths.\[14\] A very similar model can be shown to solve the Steiner tree
problem.\[15\] However, currently these models do not make sense
biologically, as they for example assume energy conservation inside the
slime mould. Living organisms consume food, so energy can not be
conserved. To build more realistic models, more data about the slime
mould's network construction needs to be gathered. To this end,
researchers are analysing the network structure of lab-grown *P.
polycephalum*.\[16\]

In a book\[17\] and several preprints that have not been scientifically
peer reviewed,\[18\]\[19\] it has been claimed that because plasmodia
appear to react in a consistent way to stimuli, they are the "ideal
substrate for future and emerging ".\[20\] An outline has been presented
showing how it may be possible to precisely point, steer and cleave
plasmodium using light and food sources,\[21\] especially
[纈草](../Page/纈草.md "wikilink").\[22\] Moreover, it has been
reported that plasmodia can be made to form
[邏輯閘s](../Page/邏輯閘.md "wikilink"),\[23\] enabling the
construction of biological computers. In particular, plasmodia placed at
entrances to special geometrically shaped mazes would emerge at exits of
the maze that were consistent with [真值表s](../Page/真值表.md "wikilink") for
certain primitive logic connectives. However, as these constructions are
based on theoretical models of the slime mould, in practice these
results do not scale to allow for actual computation. When the primitive
logic gates are connected to form more complex functions, the plasmodium
ceased to produce results consistent with the expected truth tables.

Even though complex computations using Physarum as a substrate are
currently not possible, researchers have successfully used the
organism's reaction to its environment in a USB sensor\[24\] and to
control a robot.\[25\]

## References

  - Specific

<!-- end list -->

  - General

<!-- end list -->

  -
  -
## External links

  - [Tedx Talk given by Audrey Dussutour, a French Slime mold
    Specialist.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=47qiwqKRef0)
  - [PhysarumPlus: An Internet Resource for Students of Physarum
    polycephalum and Other Acellular Slime
    Molds](http://www.educationalassistance.org/Physarum/PhysarumPlus.html)
  - [Cellular memory hints at the origins of
    intelligence](http://www.nature.com/news/2008/080123/full/451385a.html#B2) –
    The learning and memory potential of Physarum polycephalum
  - [Time lapse video of Physarum growing in a Petri
    dish](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mvBSkt6LhJE)
  - [Slime Mould Collective](http://slimoco.ning.com) - "An
    international network of/for intelligent organisms"
  - [NEFI: A software that can be used to extract networks from images
    of Physarum.](http://nefi.mpi-inf.mpg.de)

[Category:Mycetozoa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Mycetozoa "wikilink")
[Category:Myxogastria](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Myxogastria "wikilink")

1.

2.   Harvard University
    Press|website=www.hup.harvard.edu|language=en|access-date=2018-01-26}}

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.  {{ cite journal |last = Caleffi |first = Marcello |author2=Akyildiz,
    Ian F. |author3=Paura, Luigi |date = 2015 |title = On the Solution
    of the Steiner Tree NP-Hard Problem via Physarum BioNetwork |journal
    = IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking |volume = PP |issue = 99
    |pages = 1092–1106 |doi = 10.1109/TNET.2014.2317911 }}

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.
16.

17.

18.

19.

20.
21.
22.

23.
24.

25.