**Liang Emlyn Yang** (杨亮,字也明; \*1983) is a Research Associate (Lecturer)
at the Graduate School of Human Development in Landscapes,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel in Germany. Emlyn used to study
and work at the University of Hamburg, Germany, where he received his
PhD in Geography in 2014, focusing on climate risks and adaptation. He
got his master and bachelor in geography in China.

## Life

Liang Emlyn Yang studies long-term climate change and social resilience
in especially China and South Asia developing areas. He is recently
carrying out three research projects funded by the German Foreign
Ministry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the German Academic Exchange
Service (DAAD). He has also served as a consultant in several
international organizations regarding regenerative cities (World Future
Council), resilient cities (Project RESURBE), climate entrepreneurship
(EU Climate-KIC), low-carbon transition (MIT Climate CoLab), and climate
solutions (Project Drawdown). He acted as assistant supervisor of master
students and taught in the Kiel University.

Emlyn has published 27 peer-reviewed research papers. His research
interests include climate-related water risk/vulnerability assessment,
agent-based modeling of human responses to hydro-hazards, and he seeks
to develop solutions for vulnerability reduction and resilience building
in the socio-hydro field. Emlyn has experience applying
stakeholder-based technologies within the above research fields. His
aims to establish a new landscape of climate resilience in both theory
and practice.

## 参考资料

[Category:用条目向导创建的草稿](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:用条目向导创建的草稿 "wikilink")