[K1600_gto_hgyabc_berlin_121208_img_3718_(8267283828).jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:K1600_gto_hgyabc_berlin_121208_img_3718_\(8267283828\).jpg "fig:K1600_gto_hgyabc_berlin_121208_img_3718_(8267283828).jpg")

**能力建立**，又譯做**能量建構**（），又稱**能力發展**或**能力開發**（）。這是描述個人或組織為能夠讓對其工作之職能或使相關效益（規模、受眾⋯⋯等）提升，而獲得、提升、維持所需之技能、知識、工具、器材或其他資源的過程。「能力建立」或「能力發展」兩個詞常常會交互使用。

「社區能力建立」（）是一種在社會、行為轉換上引導基礎建設發展的概念，經常是指強化在小型企業或地方草根運動之群眾或社群的技能、職能或能力，讓他們可以達到其目標並且克服造成其被排斥或痛苦的可能成因。它把重點放在同時理解居民、政府、國際組織及[非政府組織](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/非政府組織 "wikilink")（NGO）所面臨的阻礙，並實現其發展目標，來加強能夠讓其達成可估量且永續的結果之能力。此詞在1990年代起開始流行於國際開發的領域裡。到了今天，「社區能力建立」被列入在大多數推動社會經濟發展之國際組織的方案裡，例如[世界银行](../Page/世界银行.md "wikilink")、[联合国](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/联合国 "wikilink")、以及[樂施會這類非政府組織](../Page/樂施會.md "wikilink")。這詞的廣泛使用也造成了對其真正意涵的爭議。

組織性的能力建立則多是非政府組織與政府單位用來指引其內部的發展與活動。

## 定義

[Community_Capacity_Development_in_Brazil_05.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Community_Capacity_Development_in_Brazil_05.jpg "fig:Community_Capacity_Development_in_Brazil_05.jpg")
許多組織對於社區能力建立有著自己的詮釋方式，而不去著重推動在開發中國家的雙向發展。能力建立的形式很多，諸如募款、訓練中心、實地拜訪、提供辦公室與記錄支援、在職訓練、學習中心、顧問。為了避免對於開發中國家一直仰賴國際援助，開發中國家正在使用由這類組織以能力建立的形式所提供的因應策略。

[联合国开发计划署](../Page/联合国开发计划署.md "wikilink")（UNDP）是社區能力建立的先行者之一。從1970年代初，聯合國開發計劃署便提供其工作人員以及政府機構名為「機構建立（）」的培訓。

（UNISDR）對「能力發展」在「減少災害風險（）」領域中的定義為「人民、組織、社會系統性的不斷促進與開發其能力，以期達到社會與經濟的目標，包含知識、技能、系統、機構這些面向（在廣泛之社會與文化賦能環境裡頭）的改善\[1\]」。

在1991年，「機構建立」這個詞演化為「社區能力建立」。聯合國開發計劃署對能力建立的定義為一長期持續的發展流程，包含所有的利益相關者；包含中央部會、地方政府、非政府組織、專家、社區民眾、學者等等。能力建立使用一國的人力、科學、技術、組織、機構、資源能量。能力建立的目標是在考量一國人民的潛力、侷限、需求後，解決與政策和發展方法相關之問題。聯合國開發計劃署指出能力建立發生於三處：個人層面、機構層面、社會層面。\[2\]

  - 個人層面——在個人層面的社區能力建立需要個人參與者建立及增進知識、技能。它也允許個人能夠參與處理「學習和因應變動的過程」。

\[3\]

  - 機構層面——在機構層面的社區能力建立應該涵蓋在發展中國家受到支持的機構。它不應該建立新的機構，而是讓既有的機構現代化並且支援他們形成妥當的方針、組織架構、對於管理和收支控制的有效辦法。\[4\]
  - 社會層面——在社會層面的社區能力建立應該支持建立更佳的「互動性公共行政系統，使之能夠從其自身的行動以及服務人群收到回饋進而學習改善」。社區能力建立必須要開發出積極回應併負責任的公共行政者。\[5\]

Non Training Level- providing enabling environment to the trained staff
to perform at his optimum level.

Holding similar views to the UNDP about systems nature of capacity,
Wakely (1997) also believed that thinking about capacity building as
simply training or human resource development was too limiting and that
there needed to be a shift from that mindset\[6\]. He believed
increasing the capacity of the individual was not enough to contribute
to the advancement of sustainable development alone, and needed to be
paired with a supportive institutional and organizational
environment\[7\]. The three aspects of capacity building that Wakely
believed essential to creating better cities are human resource
development, organizational development, and institutional
development\[8\]. Human resource development defined as "the process of
equipping people with the understanding and skills, and access to the
information and knowledge to perform effectively", and is where Wakely
believes too much emphasis and efforts are focused here\[9\].
Organizational development involves the processes of how things get done
within an organization and requires examining how and why an
organization does something and what could be improved. Institutional
development is the "legal and regulatory changes" that must be made in
order for organizations to enhance their capacities\[10\].

Community capacity building is defined as the "process of developing and
strengthening the skills, instincts, abilities, processes and resources
that organizations and communities need to survive, adapt, and thrive in
the fast-changing world."\[11\]

Community capacity building is the elements that give fluidity,
flexibility and functionality of a program/organization to adapt to
changing needs of the population that is served.

Infrastructure development has been considered "economic capacity
building" because it increases the capacity of any developed or
developing society to improve trade, employment, economic development
and quality of life

## History

The term "community capacity building" has evolved from past terms such
as [institutional
building](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/institutional_building "wikilink")
and [organizational
development](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/組織發展理論 "wikilink").

In the 1950s and 1960s these terms referred to community development
that focused on enhancing the technological and self-help capacities of
individuals in rural areas.

In the 1970s, following a series of reports on international development
an emphasis was put on building capacity for technical skills in rural
areas, and also in the administrative sectors of developing countries.
In the 1980s the concept of institutional development expanded even
more. Institutional development was viewed as a long-term process of
building up a developing country's government, public and private sector
institutions, and NGOs.\[12\]

Though precursors to capacity building existed before, they were not
powerful forces in international development like "capacity building"
became during the 1990s.

The emergence of capacity building as a leading development concept in
the 1990s occurred due to a confluence of factors:

  - New philosophies that promoted empowerment and participation, like
    [Paulo Freire](../Page/保罗·弗莱雷.md "wikilink")'s *Education for
    [Critical Consciousness](../Page/批判意識.md "wikilink")* (1973), which
    emphasized that education, could not be handed down from an
    omniscient teacher to an ignorant student; rather it must be
    achieved through the process of a dialogue among equals.
  - Commissioned reports and research during the 1980s, like the
    Capacity and Vulnerabilities Analysis (CVA) which posited three
    assumptions:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    development is the process by which vulnerabilities are reduced and
    capacities increased
    no one develops anyone else
    relief programs are never neutral in their development impact\[13\]

<!-- end list -->

  - Changes in international development approaches

<!-- end list -->

  -
    During the 1980s many low-income states were subject to ""—the
    [neoliberal](../Page/新自由主義.md "wikilink") nature of the packages led
    to increasing disparities of wealth. In response, a series of
    "social dimension adjustments were enacted". The growing wealth gap
    coupled with "social dimension adjustments" allowed for an increased
    significance for NGOs in developing states as they actively
    participated in social service delivery to the poor.

<!-- end list -->

  - Then, in the 1990s a new emphasis was placed on the idea of
    [sustainable development](../Page/可持续发展.md "wikilink").\[14\]

### Capacity building as path to sustainable development

With increasing concerns about environmental issues such as climate
change, there has been a focus on achieving sustainable development, or
development that maximizes social, economic, and environmental benefit
for the long term. During debates about how to achieve sustainable
development, it has become commonplace to include discussions about
local community empowerment as well as "related concepts of
participation, ownership, agency, and bottom up planning"\[15\]. In
order to empower local communities to be self-sustaining, capacity
building has become a crucial part towards achieving sustainable
development\[16\]. Many NGOs and developmental organizations end up
inducing chronic aid dependency within communities by doing
developmental projects for the communities rather than in partnership
with them\[17\].

Reports like the  and ideas like those of Freire from earlier decades
emphasized that "no one could develop anyone else" and development had
to be participatory. These arguments questioned the effectiveness of
"[service delivery
programs](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/service_delivery_programs "wikilink")"
for achieving sustainable development, thus leading the way for a new
emphasis on "capacity building."

In September 2000, the commitment, sealed in the  in September 2000 in
New York, of 190 countries to achieving the Millennium Development Goal
by 2015, and the urgent need for countries, particularly developing
countries, to effectively and speedily respond to the current global
economic recession, climate change and other crises that are plaguing
the world and adding to the two billion people already living below the
[poverty line](../Page/貧窮門檻.md "wikilink"), has renewed interest and
engagement in capacity building.

## In developing societies

In the [UNDP](../Page/联合国开发计划署.md "wikilink")'s 2008–2013 "strategic
plan for development" capacity building is the "organization's core
contribution to development". The UNDP promotes a capacity building
approach to development in the 166 countries it is active in. It focuses
on building capacity on an institutional level and offers a six–step
process for systematic capacity building.\[18\]

The steps are:

1.  Conducting Training Need Assessment (TNA)
2.  Engage stakeholders on capacity development
      -
        An effective capacity building process must encourage
        participation by all those involved. If stakeholders are
        involved and share ownership in the process of development they
        will feel more responsible for the outcome and sustainability of
        the development. Engaging stakeholder's who are directly
        affected by the situation allows for more effective
        decision-making, it also makes development work more
        transparent. UNDP and its partners use advocacy and policy
        advisory to better engage stakeholders.\[19\]
3.  Assess capacity needs and assets
      -
        Assessing preexisting capacities through engagement with
        stakeholders allows capacity builders to see what areas require
        additional training, what areas should be prioritized, in what
        ways capacity building can be incorporated into local and
        institutional development strategies. The UNDP argues that
        capacity building that is not rooted in a comprehensive study
        and assessment of the preexisting conditions will be restricted
        to training alone, which will not facilitate sustained
        results.\[20\]
4.  Formulate a capacity development response
      -
        The UNDP says that once an assessment has been completed a
        capacity building response must be created based on four core
        issues:
          - Institutional arrangements
            Assessments often find that institutions are inefficient
            because of bad or weak policies, procedures, resource
            management, organization, leadership, frameworks, and
            communication. The UNDP and its networks work to fix
            problems associated with institutional arrangements by
            developing human resource frameworks "cover policies and
            procedures for recruitment, deployment and transfer,
            incentives systems, skills development, performance
            evaluation systems, and ethics and values."\[21\]
          - Leadership
            the UNDP believes that leadership by either an individual or
            an organization can catalyze the achievement of development
            objectives. Strong leadership allows for easier adaption to
            changes, strong leaders can also influence people. The UNDP
            uses coaching and mentoring programmers to help encourage
            the development of leadership skills such as, priority
            setting, communication and strategic planning.
          - Knowledge
            The UNDP believes knowledge is the foundation of capacity.
            They believe greater investments should be made in
            establishing strong education systems and opportunities for
            continued learning and the development of professional
            skills. They support the engagement in post-secondary
            education reforms, continued learning and domestic knowledge
            services.
          - Accountability
            the implementation of accountability measures facilitates
            better performance and efficiency. A lack of accountability
            measures in institutions allows for the proliferation of
            corruption. The UNDP promotes the strengthening of
            accountability frameworks that monitor and evaluate
            institutions. They also promote independent organizations
            that oversee, monitor and evaluate institutions. They
            promote the development of capacities such as literacy and
            language skills in civil societies that will allow for
            increased engagement in monitoring institutions.\[22\]
5.  Implement a capacity development response
      -
        Implementing a capacity building program should involve the
        inclusion of multiple systems: national, local, institutional.
        It should involve continual reassessment and expect change
        depending on changing situations. It should include evaluative
        indicators to measure the effective of initiated programs.\[23\]
6.  Evaluate capacity development
      -
        Evaluation of capacity building promotes accountability.
        Measurements should be based on changes in an institutions
        performance. Evaluations should be based on changes in
        performance based around the four main issues: institutional
        arrangements, leadership, knowledge, and accountability.\[24\]

The UNDP integrates this capacity building system into its work on
reaching the [Millennium Development
Goals](../Page/千年发展目标.md "wikilink") (MDGs).\[25\] The UNDP
focuses on building capacity at the institutional level because it
believes that "institutions are at the heart of human development, and
that when they are able to perform better, sustain that performance over
time, and manage 'shocks' to the system, they can contribute more
meaningfully to the achievement of national human development
goals."\[26\]

Capacity building in developing countries is explained by Lant
Pritchett, Michael Woolcock, and Matt Andres as a fourfold modernization
process in the areas of:

  - Economy: Enhanced productivity
  - Polity: Accurate preference aggregation
  - Society: Equal social rights, opportunities
  - Administration: Rational, professional, organizations

In this theory, called , growth over time in these four areas leads to a
state becoming developed. The underlying idea behind this theory is that
development agencies are tasked with facilitating growth in these four
areas in order to speed up the process of development or make the
process more equitable.\[27\]

## In governments

One of the most fundamental ideas associated with capacity building is
the idea of building the capacities of governments in developing
countries so they are able to handle the problems associated with
environmental, economic and social transformations. Developing a
government's capacity whether at the local, regional or national level
will allow for better governance that can lead to sustainable
development and democracy.\[28\] To avoid authoritarianism in developing
nations, a focus has been placed on developing the abilities and skills
of national and local governments so power can be diffused across a
state. Capacity building in governments often involves providing the
tools to help them best fulfill their responsibilities. These include
building up a government's ability to budget, collect revenue, create
and implement laws, promote civic engagement,\[29\] be transparent and
accountable and fight corruption.

explains that governments can strengthen weak states by building
capacity through changing land tenure patterns, adjusting methods of
taxation, and improving modes of transportation. Migdal cites Mexico's
passing of [Ley de
desamortización](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ley_de_desamortización "wikilink")
in 1856 as an example of establishing property rights as a means to
strengthen a government's capacity for rule by establishing order. This
establishes a social structure to reduce citizen conflict within the
state and a means to organize agricultural production for optimal
output. Adjusting methods of taxation is another way to consolidate
power in a weak state's government. This can be done through increasing
government revenue through increased taxation and also formalizing tax
collection by collecting taxes in cash instead of in kind. Migdal cites
the example of 19th Century Egypt's declaration of cash taxes only as
the reason for increased economic capacity as farmers were forced into
more market relations, pushing them to produce crops for export to
increase cash revenue. This gave the state more liquid income. Also,
Migdal explains that new modes of transportation can strengthen a
state's capacity through decreased isolation leading to increasing
economic opportunity by regional trade, increased accessibility, and
reduced cost of transporting goods. Migdal cites the example of the
[railroad in India](../Page/印度鐵路.md "wikilink") in 1853 as a means of
growing the cotton export industry by 500%.\[30\]

Below are examples of capacity building in governments of developing
countries:\[31\]

  - In 1999, the UNDP supported capacity building of the state
    government in [Bosnia
    Herzegovina](../Page/波斯尼亚和黑塞哥维那.md "wikilink").
    The program focused on strengthening the State's government by
    fostering new organizational, leadership and management skills in
    government figures, improved the government's technical abilities to
    communicate with the international community and civil society
    within the country.\[32\]
  - Since 2000, developing organizations like the  have approached the
    development of local governments in Afghanistan, through a capacity
    building approach. NABDP holds training sessions across Afghanistan
    in areas where there exist foundations for local governments. The
    NABDP holds workshops trying community leaders on how to best
    address the local needs of the society. Providing weak local
    government institutions with the capacity to address pertinent
    problems, reinforces the weak governments and brings them closer to
    being institutionalized. The goal of capacity builders in
    [Afghanistan](../Page/阿富汗.md "wikilink") is to build up local
    governments and provide those burgeoning institutions with training
    that will allow them to address and advocate for what the community
    needs most. Leaders are trained in "governance, conflict resolution,
    gender equity, project planning, implementation, management,
    procurement financial, and disaster management and
    mitigation."\[33\]
  - The Municipality of ,
    [Philippines](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/菲律宾 "wikilink")
    provided a concrete example related to this concept. This municipal
    government implemented its Aksyon ng Bayan Rosario 2001 And Beyond
    Human and Ecological Security Plan using as a core strategy the
    Minimum Basic Needs Approach to Improved Quality of Life –
    Community-Based Information System (MBN-CBIS) prescribed by the
    Philippine Government. This approach helped the municipal government
    identify priority families and communities for intervention, as well
    as rationalize the allocation of its social development funds. More
    importantly, it made definite steps to encourage community
    participation in situation analysis, planning, monitoring and
    evaluation of social development projects by building the capacity
    of local government officials, indigenous leaders and other
    stakeholders to converge in the management of these concerns.

### Isomorphic mimicry

One approach that some developing countries have attempted to foster
capacity building is through isomorphic mimicry. Similar to the concept
of  used in , isomorphic mimicry refers to the tendency of government to
mimic other governments' successes by replicating methods and policy
designs deemed successful in other countries. While such an approach can
be effective for solving certain development problems that have "a
universal technical solution", it often ignores the political and
organizational realities on the ground and produces little benefits to
those using it.\[34\] An example of a failed mimicry relates to the
legal reform in [Melanesia](../Page/美拉尼西亚.md "wikilink").\[35\] In
response to a major international assistance mission to improve the
quality of the justice system, a jail and a courthouse were built,
costing millions of dollars. However, the new justice infrastructure has
been rarely used since its establishment, because there has been a lack
of bureaucracy and financial sources to support the expensive justice
system. As summarized by Haggard et al., accelerated modernization is an
entirely inappropriate strategy for enhancing the functionality of legal
system as solutions like this often require state capacities that
developing countries do not have.\[36\] Another example took place in
Argentina.\[37\] During the economic crisis in late 1980s, the
government implemented a series of fiscal policies as recommended by IMF
to regulate high point inflation affecting the country's economy.
However, rather than constraining aggregate spending, the fiscal rule
merely shifted spending from the central and to provincial governments.
Adopting international best practices do not often translate into
positive changes; in the case of Argentina, the mimicry produced little
change to the vulnerable economy.

## In local communities

The capacity building approach is used at many levels throughout,
including local, regional, national and international levels. Capacity
building can be used to reorganize and capacitate governments or
individuals. International donors like
[USAID](../Page/美国国际开发署.md "wikilink") often include
capacity building as a form of assistance for developing governments or
NGOs working in developing areas. Historically this has been through a
US contractor identifying an in-country NGO and supporting its
financial, M\&E and technical systems toward the goals of that USAID
intervention. The NGO's capacity is developed as a sub-implementer of
the donor. However, many NGOs participate in a form of capacity building
that is aimed toward individuals and the building of local capacity. In
a recent report commissioned by UNAIDS and the Global Fund, individual
NGOs voiced their needs and preference for broader capacity development
inputs by donors and governments. For individuals and in-country NGOs,
capacity building may relate to leadership development, advocacy skills,
training/speaking abilities, technical skills, organizing skills, and
other areas of personal and professional development. One of the most
difficult problems with building capacity on a local level is the lack
of higher education in developing countries.\[38\] Between 2 and 5
percent of Africans have been to tertiary school.\[39\]

Another difficulty is ongoing [brain
drain](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/人才外流 "wikilink") in developing
countries. Often, young people who develop skills and capacities that
can allow for sustainable development leave their home country. Damtew
Teferra of [Boston College](../Page/波士顿学院.md "wikilink")'s Center for
African Higher Education argues that local capacity builders are needed
now more than ever and increased resources should be provided for
programs that focus on developing local expertise and skills.

The development sector, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa has many
decades of 'international technical advisors' working with and mentoring
government officials and national non-government organisations. In
health service delivery, whether maternal care or HIV related, community
organisations have been started and often grew through the strength of
their staff and commitment to be national and even regional leaders in
their technical fields. Whilst higher education is still an under-served
demand, there are significant resources of experienced staff. More
recent donor initiatives, including The Global Fund's Community Systems
Strengthening\[40\] and the US PEPFAR Technical Assistance to the New
Partners Initiative begin to address the organisation capacity needs and
stronger skills to be recognised as part of the national response to
health needs in a country.\[41\] To complete the capacity development
cycle, the Global Fund and UNAIDS Technical Support Facility and the TA
teams for CSO funded by the New Partners Initiative are staffed and
managed by residents and nationals of those same developing countries.

Below are some examples of NGOs and programs that use the term "capacity
building" to describe their activities on a local scale:\[42\]

  - The Centre for Community Empowerment (CCEM) is an NGO working in
    [Vietnam](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/越南 "wikilink") that aims to
    "train the trainers" working in the development sector of Vietnam.
    The organization believes that the sustainability of a project
    depends on the level of involvement of
    [stakeholders](../Page/持份者.md "wikilink") and so they work to
    train stakeholders in the skills needed to be active in development
    projects and encourage the activity of other stakeholders.\[43\] The
    organization operates by providing week-long training courses in for
    local individuals in issues such as project management, report
    writing, communication, fund-raising, resource mobilization,
    analysis, and planning.\[44\] The organization does not create
    physical projects, rather it develops the capacity of stakeholders
    to initiate, plan and analyze and develop projects on their
    own.\[45\]

  - is a Christian, healthcare NGO, that provides another example of an
    NGO participating in localized "capacity building."\[46\] While
    CECEM devotes its energy to training individuals to be better
    project managers and participants, Mercy Ships participates in a
    form of capacity building that focuses on the pre-existing
    capacities of individuals and builds on those.\[47\] For example,
    Mercy Ships focuses on training doctors and nurses about new
    procedures and technologies. They also focus on building leadership
    skills through training workshops for teachers, priests and other
    community leaders. Leaders are then trained in other areas such as
    care and construction of hygienic [water
    wells](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/井 "wikilink").\[48\]

The first example depicts capacity building as tool to deliver
individuals the skills they need to work effectively in [civil
society](../Page/公民社会.md "wikilink"). In the case of Mercy Ships, the
capacity building is delivering the capacity for individuals to be
stakeholders and participants in defined activities, such as health
care.\[49\]
[Training_course_(5983910905).jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Training_course_\(5983910905\).jpg "fig:Training_course_(5983910905).jpg")

## In NGOs

Societal development in poorer nations is often contingent upon the
efficiency of organizations working within that nation. Organizational
capacity building focuses on developing the capacities of organizations,
specifically NGOs, so they are better equipped to accomplish the
missions they have set out to fulfill. Failures in development can often
be traced back to an organization's inability to deliver on the service
promises it has pledged to keep. Capacity building in NGOs often
involves building up skills and abilities, such as decision making,
policy-formulation, appraisal, and learning. It is not uncommon for
donors in the global north to fund capacity building for NGOs
themselves. For organizations, capacity building may relate to almost
any aspect of its work: improved governance, leadership, mission and
strategy, administration (including human resources, financial
management, and legal matters), program development and implementation,
fund-raising and income generation, diversity, partnerships and
collaboration, evaluation, advocacy and policy change, marketing,
positioning, planning. Capacity building in NGOS is a way to strengthen
an organization so that it can perform the specific mission it has set
out to do and thus survive as an organization. It is an ongoing process
that incites organizations to continually reflect on their work,
organization, and leadership and ensure that they are fulfilling the
mission and goals they originally set out to do.\[50\]

Alan Kaplan, an international development practitioner and leading NGO
scholar, asserts that capacity development of organizations involves the
build-up of an organization's tangible and intangible assets. He argues
that for NGOs to be effective facilitators of capacity building in
developing areas, they must first focus on developing their
organization. Kaplan argues that capacity building and organizational
development in organizations should first focus on intangible qualities
such as:\[51\]

  - Conceptual framework
    An organization's understanding of the world, "This is a coherent
    frame of reference, a set of concepts which allows the organization
    to make sense of the world around it, to locate itself within that
    world, and to make decisions in relation to it."\[52\]
  - Organizational attitude
    This focuses on the way an organization views itself. Kaplan asserts
    that an organization must view itself not as a victim of the slights
    of the world, rather as an active player that has the ability to
    effect change and progress.\[53\]
  - Vision and strategy
    This refers to the organization's understanding of its vision and
    mission and what it is looking to accomplish and the program it
    wishes to follow to do so
  - Organizational structure
    A clear method of operating wherein communication flow is not
    hindered, each actor understands their role and
    responsibility.\[54\]

Kaplan argues that NGOs who focus on developing a conceptual framework,
an organizational attitude, vision and strategy are more adept at being
self-reflective and critical, two qualities that enable more effective
capacity building.\[55\] Though he asserts that these intangible
qualities are of utmost importance – Kaplan says that tangible qualities
such as skills, training and material resources such as tools,
handbooks, manuals, advisories, primers, guidelines, etc are also
imperative.

Another aspect of organizational capacity building is an organization's
capacity to reassess, reexamine and change according to what is most
needed and what will be the most effective.

## Evaluation

Since the arrival of community capacity building as such a dominant
subject in [international aid](../Page/外援.md "wikilink"), donors and
practitioners have struggled to determine a concise mechanism for
determining the effectiveness of capacity building initiatives. In 2007,
David Watson, developed specific criteria for effective evaluation and
monitoring of capacity building. Watson complained that the traditional
method of monitoring NGOs that is based primarily on a linear
results-based framework is not enough for capacity building. He argues
that evaluating capacity building NGOS should be based on a combination
of monitoring the results of their activities and also a more open
flexible way of monitoring that also takes into consideration,
self-improvement and cooperation. Watson observed 18 case studies of
capacity building evaluations and concluded that certain specific themes
were visible:\[56\]

  - monitoring an organization's clarity of mission – this involves
    evaluating an organization's goals and how well those goals are
    understood throughout the organization.
  - monitoring an organization's leadership – this involves evaluating
    how empowered the organization's leadership is-how well the
    leadership encourages experimentation, self-reflection, changes in
    team structures and approaches.\[57\]
  - monitoring an organization's learning – this involves evaluating how
    often an organization participates in effective self-reflection, and
    self-assessment. It also involves how well an organization "learns
    from experience" and if the organization promotes the idea of
    learning from experience.\[58\]
  - monitoring an organization's emphasis on on-the-job-development –
    this involves evaluating how well an organization encourages
    continued learning, specifically through hands on approaches.
  - monitoring an organization's monitoring processes – this involves
    evaluating how well an organization participates in self-monitoring.
    It looks at whether or not an organization encourages growth through
    learning from mistakes.\[59\]

In 2007, [USAID](../Page/美国国际开发署.md "wikilink") published a report on
its approach to monitoring and evaluating capacity building. According
to the report, USAID monitors: program objectives, the links between
projects and activities of an organization and its objectives, a program
or organization's measurable indicators, data collection, and progress
reports. USAID evaluates: why objectives were achieved, or why they were
not, the overall contributions of projects, it examines qualifiable
results that are more difficult to measure, it looks at unintended
results or consequences, it looks at reports on lessons learned. USAID
uses two types of indicators for progress: "output indicators" and
"outcome indicators." Output indicators measure immediate changes or
results such as the number of people trained. Outcome indicators measure
the impact, such as laws changed due to trained advocates.\[60\]

## 提供能力建立的機構不完全列表

### 歐洲

  - [欧洲联盟委员会](../Page/欧洲联盟委员会.md "wikilink")

### 聯合國

  - [联合国气候变化框架公约](../Page/联合国气候变化框架公约.md "wikilink")（UNFCCC）

  - [联合国艾滋病联合规划署](../Page/联合国艾滋病联合规划署.md "wikilink")（UNAIDS）

  - [联合国工业发展组织](../Page/联合国工业发展组织.md "wikilink")（UNIDO）

  - [聯合國開發計畫署](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/聯合國開發計畫署 "wikilink") (UNDP)

  - [世界银行](../Page/世界银行.md "wikilink")（WB）

  - [國際貨幣基金組織](../Page/國際貨幣基金組織.md "wikilink") (IMF)

  - [联合国粮食及农业组织](../Page/联合国粮食及农业组织.md "wikilink") (FAO)

  - [世界糧食計劃署](../Page/世界糧食計劃署.md "wikilink") (WFP)

  - [世界旅游组织](../Page/世界旅游组织.md "wikilink") (UWNTO)，透過旗下的 UNWTO.Themis
    基金會\[61\]

  - (WFEO)

  - [世界海关组织](../Page/世界海关组织.md "wikilink") (WCO)

## 參見

  - [巴厘路线图](../Page/巴厘路线图.md "wikilink")

  -
  - [組織發展理論](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/組織發展理論 "wikilink")

  -
## 參考文獻

## 延伸閱讀

  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
  -
## 外部連結

  - [Official UNDP web site](http://www.undp.org/)
  - [OECD Trento Centre for Local Development web
    site](Http://www.trento.oecd.org)

[Category:社區發展](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:社區發展 "wikilink")
[Category:非營利組織技術](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:非營利組織技術 "wikilink")
[Category:國際發展](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:國際發展 "wikilink")

1.

2.

3.
4.
5.
6.  Heslop, Vivienne Rosemary. *Sustainable capacity: building
    institutional capacity for sustainable development*. Diss.
    ResearchSpace@ Auckland, 2010.

7.
8.
9.
10.
11. Ann Philbin, *Capacity Building in Social Justice Organizations*,
    Ford Foundation, 1996

12.

13.

14.

15. Vestbø, Linn. *Promoting sustainability through enhanced capacities:
    a study of the role of a non-governmental development organization
    in promoting sustainable local development, through an enhancement
    of local community capabilities: the case of Joint Aid Management
    (JAM) International’s Operations in Machengue community, Inhambane,
    Mozambique*. MS thesis. Universitetet i Agder; University of Agder,
    2016.

16.
17.
18.

19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

26.
27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.
35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.
43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.
49.
50.
51.

52.
53.
54.
55.
56.

57.
58.
59.
60.

61.