**Astralis**是一只由前[Team
SoloMid](../Page/Team_SoloMid.md "wikilink")/[Questionmark战队成员拥有的](../Page/问号.md "wikilink")[丹麦电子竞技组织](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/丹麦 "wikilink")，经理为弗雷德里克·比斯科夫（Frederik
"realition" Byskov）。其名称使用权由原芬兰反恐精英战队创建人授权。

## 历史

### 2016

#### 一月至五月

Astralis参加的首场赛事为2016年1月举办的DreamHack Leipzig
2016。Astralis在打败丹麦兄弟战队和实力较强的欧洲战队后成功晋级，但在以比分0-2输给后铩羽而归。在接下来的线下赛事Global
eSports Cup中，Astralis三局两胜战胜了Method和[G2
Esports](../Page/G2_Esports.md "wikilink")，再次成功晋级。They would go on to
lose the semi-final vs their rivals from the previous year,  1-2 and
then defeat CLG in the third-place decider, only losing seven rounds
over two maps. ESL Expo Barcelona was up next which featured an unusual
format where each team had three lives and a map loss would mean a life
lost. Astralis won five maps against [G2
Esports](../Page/G2_Esports.md "wikilink"), x6tence,  and . Astralis
narrowly lost a life to G2 and played two close games vs
[Fnatic](../Page/Fnatic.md "wikilink") in the faux-final as the only two
teams left.

IEM Katowice was next and Astralis would once again top their group and
go straight to the semi-final with best-of-one wins over , , E-Frag,
and . Astralis were set to play the last match of the day vs
[Fnatic](../Page/Fnatic.md "wikilink"), but due to delays, this didn’t
start until midnight and finally finished at 3am with Astralis losing
1-2.

Astralis were expected to go far in MLG Columbus, the eighth CS:GO Major
following their 2nd place finish to  at Counter Pit League Season 2. The
event started well as Astralis beat  and  to top their group but were
rewarded by being drawn against [Fnatic](../Page/Fnatic.md "wikilink")
in the Quarterfinals, the favourites to win the whole event after
winning their previous six events in a row. Things did not go well for
the Swedes though, as Astralis won in two maps, 16-10 on Overpass and
16-5 on Fnatic’s map pick, Cache due to a standout performance from
Peter “” Rasmussen. Astralis went on to face  in the semi-final where
they narrowly lost Inferno 14-16 and were outclassed on Dust II thanks
to stellar performances from Ioann “Edward” Sukhariev and Egor “flamie”
Vasilyev.

Over the next few events Astralis did not live up to their reputation of
cleaning up in groups and advancing comfortably to playoffs. Their first
group stage exit in six months occurred at DreamHack Masters Malmö 2016,
whe