[Kg_signals.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Kg_signals.jpg "fig:Kg_signals.jpg")

**[鐵路號誌機的應用](../Page/铁路信号机.md "wikilink")**在[鐵路上的分佈取決與各種因素](../Page/鐵路.md "wikilink")，原則上是針對潛在衝突點、火車的速度和頻率以及需求來決定。

## 不提供信號

在討論信號的應用之前，應先強調一些不需要信號的情況：

  - [側線一般來說都不需要發出信號](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/侧线_\(铁路\) "wikilink")，因為他們所有的運行都是在低速下進行的。
  - [電車常在不需要號誌的情況下](../Page/有軌電車.md "wikilink")「依視線行駛」（相似於一般道路交通）。
  - 當指令以固定的方式（例如通過書面或口頭授權）、、[機車信號傳遞給駕駛員時](../Page/机车信号.md "wikilink")。

## 目的

信號存在的目的主要是向經過列車的駕駛員傳遞指令和訊息，駕駛員將解讀信號後再依照指令行動。最重要的指標是「危險」，意思即為「停止」，但並非每個信號都具有「危險」的指標。

## 衝突點的保護

根據需要保護有可能出現衝突的基礎設施提供信號，其中包括了：

  - [轉轍器](../Page/轉轍器.md "wikilink")

  - [活動橋](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/活動橋 "wikilink")

  - 某些路面[平交道](../Page/平交道.md "wikilink")

  - 和

信號無法顯示「繼續前進」，除非其保護的基礎設施處於列車通過的正確位置，或者在平坦路口和交叉鐵軌上沒有其他信號因為衝突的行動而被清除。
這是透過[連鎖系統實施的](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/联锁 "wikilink")。

## 下班列車的保護

運行線（與側線不同）被分割成多段。在一般的情況下，一段軌道只會被一列火車占用。

每一段軌道開始的地方都會有一個信號，若該部分沒有被占用將可能只顯示「繼續」，或至少與下一個信號顯示的相同。

路段的長度以及信號之間的距離決定了鐵路的運輸量。分成較短的路段能比分成較長的路段容納更多的列車。

## 信號點的設置

信號點的設置取決於格局上預期安排的位置和預期發生變動的區域。不過並不是格局上每個預期安排的位置都必須設置信號。如果有工程正在進行，卻沒有信號可供指引，則可以在特殊的指令下進行。在信號故障的期間也是如此。

## 號誌類型

### 主號誌機

主號誌機主要控制延著主線運行的列車。主號誌機上顯示「繼續」表示至少到下一個號誌之前的路段都是通暢的，使駕駛員可以正常的速度運行。長距離行駛的列車，特別是載客列車，通常會由主號誌機控制，於一定的速度下行駛。

### 調度號誌

調度號誌負責控制低速運行且不適合由主信號控制的列車，例如將列車調度到側線上。調度信號解除並不一定代表前方的路段沒有車輛。調度信號通常安裝在地面上，且比主要號誌小。

### 停止號誌

停止號誌配備著顯示「危險」信號的功能，用以指示列車停止，其功能是為了防止與其他列車發生衝突，並指示可移動的基礎設施是否皆位於正確的位置。根據它們的使用方式以及鐵路管理局所偏好的命名方式，停止號誌可以進一步做歸類，例如「歸屬號誌」與「起始信號」等。停止信號的樣式通常是固定的，是一塊帶有紅色實心圓的白板，底下有一塊面板告知駕駛員他在何種情況下可以通過這個號誌。系統正是使用此號誌的範例。

### 遠距號誌

[Signal_Distant_Semaphore_Y_&_G.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Signal_Distant_Semaphore_Y_&_G.jpg "fig:Signal_Distant_Semaphore_Y_&_G.jpg")

遠距號誌並無配備顯示「危險」信號的功能，但可顯示「警告」信號，以告知駕駛員前方的停止信號有可能顯示著「危險」信號。考量到路段坡度、限速和不同種列車的煞車性能，遠距號誌通常被設置在到達停止號誌前可完全煞車的距離。在看見「警告」信號時，駕駛員必須做好在前方信號處煞車的準備；若遠距號誌顯示「暢通」信號，則列車便可以正常速度繼續行駛。同一個信號機可以同時配備停止號誌和遠距號誌的功能。有些遠距號誌只會顯示「警告」信號，而不會顯示「暢通」信號，而這種號誌通常固定在與信號柱同樣高度的位置，另一種則是以一塊畫在白板上的圖片呈現。

### 絕對號誌

絕對號誌的「危險」信號代表著「停止並停留」。在沒有取得允許的情況下是不可通過的。

### 許可號誌

許可號誌的「危險」信號代表著「停止再往前」。在駕駛員初次到達時可以依照所規定的權利決定是否通過。

### 附屬號誌

附屬號誌可以在部分已占用的軌道路段給予行動指令。這類號誌通常被設立在終點站以給予兩列或以上的火車指令進入單一月台。

## Junction signalling

The driver of a train approaching a diverging junction must be made
aware of which direction the train will take, so that its speed can be
regulated accordingly. A diverging route might have a significantly
lower permissible speed than the main route, and if the route taken was
not the one expected, it could result in
[derailment](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/脫軌 "wikilink").

There are two different philosophies on junction signalling. Signalling
of British origin generally conforms to the principle of *route
signalling*. Most railway systems around the world, however, use what is
known as *speed signalling*.

Under route signalling, a driver is informed of which route the train
will take beyond each signal (unless only one route is possible). This
is achieved by a 'route indicator' attached to the signal. The driver
uses his route knowledge, reinforced by speed restriction signs fixed at
the lineside, to drive the train at the correct speed for the route to
be taken.

Under speed signalling, the driver is not told which route the train
will take, but the signal aspect informs him at what speed he may
proceed. Speed signalling requires a far greater range of signal aspects
than route signalling, but less dependence is placed on drivers' route
knowledge.

## Bidirectional signalling

Many [double](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/复线铁路 "wikilink") or multiple
track railways have a designated direction of travel assigned to each
track. Signals will only be installed to permit traffic to flow in one
direction on each line (i.e. uni-directional signalling).

[The_"Enterprise"_at_Poyntzpass_-_geograph.org.uk_-_1719543.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:The_"Enterprise"_at_Poyntzpass_-_geograph.org.uk_-_1719543.jpg "fig:The_\"Enterprise\"_at_Poyntzpass_-_geograph.org.uk_-_1719543.jpg")
on [NIR](../Page/北愛爾蘭鐵路.md "wikilink").\]\]

**Bidirectional signalling** is the provision of signalling that allows
one or more tracks on a multiple track railway to be operated in either
direction, whether for regular or emergency use. Bidirectional
signalling intended for regular use will generally allow traffic to flow
at similarly high frequency in one or other direction. If intended for
emergency use, running in the opposite direction might only be possible
at reduced frequency. Typically, 'reduced capacity' bidirectional
signalling only provides a signalled route onto and off the other line
for 'wrong' direction running, without any intermediate stop signals
that would improve capacity.

Bidirectional signalling is more expensive to implement as it requires
more equipment than uni-directional operation, so it is not always
provided. In the absence of bidirectional signalling, 'wrong direction'
movements may still be made on a uni-directional line at times of
disruption, through a procedure known as .

Bidirectional signalling is easier to implement when under the control
of one . Before power-operated signalling became widespread, track
layouts tended to be designed to avoid bidirectional arrangements as
much as possible.

[Single track](../Page/單線鐵路.md "wikilink") railways must necessarily
have signals for both directions. This is not regarded as bidirectional
signalling.

## Signals for special purposes

### Train order signal

Used in conjunction with the American , a train order signal advises the
[engineer](../Page/列車駕駛.md "wikilink") of the need to pick up a train
order at a station.

### Hump shunting signal

In a [hump yard](../Page/編組場.md "wikilink"), special signals may control
the speed of trains propelling vehicles towards the hump.

### Loading and unloading signals

Signals may be installed to control the movement of freight trains
through a facility for loading or unloading minerals, for example coal.
Unlike ordinary signals, there may be a series of identical signals
installed along the track so that at least one is always visible to the
train driver at any time. All signals in the same group display the same
indication simultaneously. A 'stop' indication means "stop
*immediately*", even if the train is not at the signal. The signals can
also instruct a train to reverse.

## References

  -
  -
[Category:鐵路訊號系統](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:鐵路訊號系統 "wikilink")