**中華人民共和國憲政史**描述了[中華人民共和國的憲法制度之更替](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中華人民共和國 "wikilink")。首部《[中华人民共和国宪法](../Page/中华人民共和国宪法.md "wikilink")》在1954年頒布，期間在1975年和1978年分別頒佈新憲法。現今實施的憲法是在1982年頒布。四部憲法都有明顯的不同之處，1982年的憲法更是被修改了多次。除此之外，中國政府的架構亦有多次重大改變，但中國憲法並未如般進行修訂。

## 背景與先例

[中國王朝的憲法制度在封建的權力分配與中央集權的專制統治之間搖擺不定](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中國朝代 "wikilink")。19世紀末，[日本頒佈](../Page/日本.md "wikilink")《[大日本帝國憲法](../Page/大日本帝國憲法.md "wikilink")》，[君主立宪制和明文](../Page/君主立宪制.md "wikilink")[宪法的思想開始影響中國](../Page/宪法.md "wikilink")。1898年，中國爆發[戊戌变法](../Page/戊戌变法.md "wikilink")，希望令[大清國改行](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/大清國 "wikilink")[立憲制](../Page/立憲運動.md "wikilink")。不過，忠於[慈禧太后的保守](../Page/慈禧太后.md "wikilink")[保皇派在變法實施百多日後發動](../Page/保皇黨.md "wikilink")[政變](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/戊戌变法#戊戌政變 "wikilink")，大清立憲制沒有成事。不過保皇派最終仍然推動改行立憲制的政策。1908年，當局頒布首部明文憲法－《[欽定憲法大綱](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/欽定憲法大綱 "wikilink")》。1911年的，首部具有法律效力的憲法－《[憲法重大信條十九條](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/憲法重大信條十九條 "wikilink")》正式實施，但不久後清朝就因[辛亥革命被推翻](../Page/辛亥革命.md "wikilink")，十九信條在翌年2月不再具有法律效力。

[中華民國在](../Page/中華民國_\(大陸時期\).md "wikilink")1912年成立，[國民黨政府頒布一系列憲法文件](../Page/中國國民黨.md "wikilink")，旨在反映[孫中山的](../Page/孫中山.md "wikilink")「[三民主義](../Page/三民主義.md "wikilink")」和西方國家的規範\[1\]。首部正式[中華民國憲法在](../Page/中華民國憲法.md "wikilink")1946年頒布，[中國國民黨控制的政府匆匆宣告孫中山](../Page/中國國民黨.md "wikilink")《建國大綱》的[訓政時期正式結束](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/國民政府建國大綱#訓政時期 "wikilink")。1940年代尾至1950年代初期間，中華民國政府逐步失去對[中国大陆的有效統治權](../Page/中国大陆.md "wikilink")，但中華民國憲法繼續在[臺灣實施](../Page/臺灣.md "wikilink")。

## 1949年共同綱領

1949年，[中国共产党在](../Page/中国共产党.md "wikilink")[国共内战獲得決定性勝利](../Page/国共内战.md "wikilink")。同年6月，共產黨舉行[中国人民政治协商会议](../Page/中国人民政治协商会议.md "wikilink")，籌備奉行[新民主主义革命主義的新政權](../Page/新民主主义革命.md "wikilink")，取代國民黨的[中華民國政府](../Page/中華民國_\(大陸時期\).md "wikilink")。

[中国人民政治协商会议第一届全体会议在](../Page/中国人民政治协商会议第一届全体会议.md "wikilink")1949年9月21日開幕，共產黨和八個[参政党都參加了會議](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中華人民共和國政黨#参政党 "wikilink")。是次會議都被視為是實際上的，會上通過「臨時憲法」－《[中國人民政治協商會議共同綱領](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中國人民政治協商會議共同綱領 "wikilink")》\[2\]，決定新政府的架構、國名、國都、國歌、國旗等。9月30日下午，會上舉行政府選舉，[毛泽东被選為](../Page/毛泽东.md "wikilink")[中央人民政府主席](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中央人民政府委员会#中央人民政府主席 "wikilink")。會議結束後的翌日－1949年10月1日，[中华人民共和国正式成立](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中华人民共和国 "wikilink")。

中華人民共和國政府成立的頭五年，《共同綱領》成為實際上的國家憲法。值得注意的是《共同綱領》中部分條文仍然容許容許一定程度的民主和包容，包括保證會保護[私有財產](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/私有制 "wikilink")（第三條）、「團結」[資產階級](../Page/資產階級.md "wikilink")（第13條）、協助[私人公司](../Page/私人公司.md "wikilink")（第30條），甚至1949年的首屆人民政府亦有非共產黨的其他政黨代表。但即使綱領沒有規定其有效期，但有觀點指出綱領早在1953年元旦毛澤東提出社會主義過渡時期總路線時即已經失效，而這些民主和包容政策至今已不復存在。

## 1954年憲法

為遵循共同綱領，人民政府已經開始準備召開首屆[全国人民代表大会和草擬共和國的首部永久憲法](../Page/全国人民代表大会.md "wikilink")。1952年12月24日第一屆[全國政協常委會第四十三次會議上](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/全国政协常委会 "wikilink")，[国务院总理](../Page/中华人民共和国国务院总理.md "wikilink")[周恩来代表中國共產黨提議起草憲法](../Page/周恩来.md "wikilink")，提議獲政協通過。1953年1月13日，[中央人民政府委員會第二十次會議決定由](../Page/中央人民政府委员会.md "wikilink")[毛澤東等三十餘人組成憲法起草委員會](../Page/毛泽东.md "wikilink")，即形式上制憲機關為[中央人民政府](../Page/中华人民共和国中央人民政府_\(1949–1954\).md "wikilink")。

草擬的過程由共產黨主導，並幾乎局限於[中央政治局](../Page/中国共产党中央政治局.md "wikilink")。1954年3月，憲法草稿送交政治局，1954年春夏進行討論。1954年9月20日，即共同綱領通過後剛剛五年，[第一屆全國人民代表大會第一次會議全票通過新](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/第一届全国人民代表大会第一次会议 "wikilink")《憲法》，史稱「1954年憲法」。

「1954年憲法」包括前言和108條條文，分為四個章節。憲法規定了一個與現行制度非常相似的政府結構。其中第二章所設立的政府有六個機關組成，最高國家權力機關為屬於立法的[全国人民代表大会](../Page/全国人民代表大会.md "wikilink")\[3\]。行政方面則由[中华人民共和国主席和](../Page/中华人民共和国主席.md "wikilink")[中华人民共和国国务院所組成](../Page/中华人民共和国国务院.md "wikilink")。Sub-national
government was to be composed of people's congresses and people's
committees of various levels. Autonomous ethnic areas would decide on
their forms of government according to the wishes of the "majority of
the people" in these areas. Finally, a hierarchy of courts headed by the
[Supreme People's Court](../Page/中华人民共和国最高人民法院.md "wikilink") and the
[Supreme People's Procuratorate](../Page/中华人民共和国最高人民检察院.md "wikilink")
(which would investigate crimes by the government) formed the judicial
system.\[4\]

Chapter Three, Fundamental Rights and Duties of Citizens, guaranteed a
relatively comprehensive set of human rights, but also imposed the duty
to pay taxes, undertake [national
service](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/national_service "wikilink"), and
to obey the law.

Like the subsequent versions of the Constitution, the 1954 Constitution
was not [entrenched](../Page/宪法.md "wikilink"). It could be amended by
the National People's Congress (Article 27(1)) by a special two-thirds
majority (Article 29) without recourse to a referendum or other such
mechanism.

The 1954 Constitution was intended to be a transitional constitution, to
be revised after China developed into a [socialist
economy](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/社会主义政治经济学 "wikilink").\[5\]

## 1975 Constitution

However, the Chinese government functioned more or less as envisaged for
only a short time. In 1957, the [Anti-Rightist
Movement](../Page/反右运动.md "wikilink") marked the beginning of a
series of political movements and purges during which the Constitution's
protections against Party interference in the judiciary largely failed
to be respected.\[6\] These culminated in the [Cultural
Revolution](../Page/文化大革命.md "wikilink") (1966-1976), a period in which
the normal operation of government virtually ceased. In 1966, President
[Liu Shaoqi](../Page/刘少奇.md "wikilink") was political denounced, and
from 1967 was placed under house arrest. After suffering two years of
persecution, Liu died, unreported, in 1969, and the position of
President was left unfilled. During this period, most government bodies
around the country ceased operation; various levels of people's
governments were replaced by Revolutionary Committees. Instead of
(formally) by election, power passed via public denunciations and, in
many cases, violent clashes.

In 1975, [Mao Zedong](../Page/毛泽东.md "wikilink") and his supporters
sought to formalise their power through the promulgation of a new
Constitution. Under the 1975 Constitution, the office of the President
(officially translated as "Chairman" during this period) was abolished,
leaving Mao, as the [Chairman of the Communist
Party](../Page/中国共产党中央委员会主席.md "wikilink"), as the
sole power centre. Formal duties of the President as Head of State were
to be performed by the Chairman of the National People's Congress (who
was, at the time, [Zhu De](../Page/朱德.md "wikilink")). The replacement
of local government by Revolutionary Committees was also formalised. The
Constitution was shorted to 30 articles, and the Fundamental Rights and
Duties of Citizens was greatly shortened. Guarantees removed included
the rights to property and privacy, freedom from political
discrimination, freedom of movement, speech, and artistic freedom, among
other human rights. Concurrently, the duty to pay taxes was also
removed. The 1975 Constitution also saw a significant shift in tone
compared to the 1954 Constitution, and saw the insertion of a
significant number of ideological sloganeering provisions, including the
claim that the nation was guided by "Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong
Thought".\[7\]

## 1978 Constitution

Mao died in 1976, and the [Gang of Four](../Page/四人帮.md "wikilink") who
had dominated Chinese politics were driven out of power by October 1976.
The 1978 Constitution was promulgated in March 1978 under the
chairmanship of [Hua Guofeng](../Page/华国锋.md "wikilink"). It contained
60 sections organised into four Chapters. In many ways, the 1978
Constitution was a compromise between the interim leadership's desire to
consolidate power using Mao's [moral
authority](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/道德权威 "wikilink"), while
responding to the popular desire to reverse the Leftists extremes of the
previous period. On the one hand, the new Constitution in many places
maintained the ideological tone of the 1975 Constitution, such as in
Article 16 ("State officials must diligently study Marxism, Leninism,
and Mao Zedong Thought, serve the people whole-heartedly ...") and
Article 19 ("The fundamental role of the Armed Forces is: \[...\]
defending against destabilisation and invasion from Socio-Imperialism,
Imperialism, and their running dogs"). At the same time, the need for
"Socialist democracy" was emphasised (Article 3), and the 1954 system of
government was largely restored, including its significant checks on
[executive power](../Page/行政机构.md "wikilink").\[8\]

## 1982 Constitution

The 1978 Constitution was again short-lived. In December 1978, the third
plenary meeting of the 11th Communist Party Central Committee began a
series of reviews and reforms that confirmed [Deng
Xiaoping](../Page/邓小平.md "wikilink") as the new paramount leader
of China, with reform-minded leaders supported by Deng filling the top
echelon of government. As part of the Deng faction's political reform
agenda, a fourth Constitution was promulgated on 4 December 1982. The
[1982 Constitution](../Page/中华人民共和国宪法.md "wikilink") was born in a
political environment where the past, including Mao's "errors" and
almost all of the Communist Party's policies from 1949, were relatively
objectively re-examined, and the country's future, including the pursuit
of [market economic](../Page/市场经济.md "wikilink") reforms, was being
openly debated. As a result, the 1982 Constitution returned the
government structure to broadly that set up in 1954, with the Presidency
restored. The Fundamental Rights and Duties of Citizens were greatly
expanded, and elevated to Chapter Two, ahead of the provisions for the
structure of the government. The 1982 Constitution was subsequently
amended in 1988, 1993, 1999, 2004 and 2018, generally modifying the
Constitution in accordance with economic and political reforms over that
period. The current compilation dates from 11 March 2018.

The system of government set up under the 1982 Constitution has
undergone some changes, largely due to the evolution of Constitutional
conventions rather than textual amendments. The most significant of
these occurred in 1989-1993. As drafted, the 1982 Constitution
contemplated that the power of the state would be distributed amongst
the [General Secretary of the Communist Party of
China](../Page/中国共产党中央委员会总书记.md "wikilink"), the
[Premier of the State Council](../Page/中华人民共和国国务院总理.md "wikilink"), and
the [Chairman of the Central Military
Commission](../Page/中国共产党中央军事委员会主席.md "wikilink").
The [President](../Page/中华人民共和国主席.md "wikilink"), as nominal head of
state, would be a symbolic role with little substantive power. Such was
the arrangement until 1989. During the [1989 Tiananmen Square
Protests](../Page/六四事件.md "wikilink"), the President, [Yang
Shangkun](../Page/杨尚昆.md "wikilink"), also the Vice chairman of Central
Military Commission, used his formal powers under the Constitution to
deploy troops to Beijing in support of the state of emergency declared
by the Premier [Li Peng](../Page/李鹏.md "wikilink"), and colluded in the
subsequent violent crackdown in
[Beijing](../Page/北京市.md "wikilink"),\[9\] against the wishes of
[Zhao Ziyang](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/赵紫阳 "wikilink"), the General
Secretary of the Party. In a reaction against the conflict between the
independent power centres, at the expiration of Deng's term, the new
General Secretary, [Jiang Zemin](../Page/江泽民.md "wikilink"), also became
[Chairman of the Central Military
Commission](../Page/中国共产党中央军事委员会主席.md "wikilink"),
and later took on the position of the President as well. In this way,
the centres of power were unified. This convention has continued to this
day.

## 參見

  - [中华人民共和国宪法](../Page/中华人民共和国宪法.md "wikilink")
  - [中华人民共和国历史](../Page/中华人民共和国历史.md "wikilink")

## 參考文獻

[Category:中国法律史](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中国法律史 "wikilink")
[Category:中国宪法性文件](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中国宪法性文件 "wikilink")

1.

2.

3.

4.
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.