**HotBot**是一个由[科思](../Page/科思.md "wikilink")（[Lycos](../Page/Lycos.md "wikilink")）研发的[网络搜索引擎](../Page/网络搜索引擎.md "wikilink")。它于1996年5月推出。

## 历史

### 早年

HotBot became a popular tool with search results served by the
[Inktomi](../Page/Inktomi_\(company\).md "wikilink") database and
directory results provided originally by
[LookSmart](../Page/LookSmart.md "wikilink") and then
[DMOZ](../Page/DMOZ.md "wikilink") since mid-1999. Hotbot also used
search data from Direct Hit for a period, which was a tool that used
click-through data to manipulate results. It was launched using a "new
links" strategy of marketing, claiming to update its search database
more often than its competitors. It also offered free webpage hosting,
but only for a short time, and it was taken down without any notice to
its users. It was one of the first search engines to offer the ability
to search within search results.

### 收购和经济衰退

[Lycos](../Page/Lycos.md "wikilink") acquired HotBot in 1998 and for a
number of years HotBot languished with limited development and falling
market share. At the end of 2002 HotBot was relaunched as a multiple
option search tool, giving users the option to search either the
[FAST](../Page/Fast_Search_&_Transfer.md "wikilink"),
[Google](../Page/Google.md "wikilink"),
[Inktomi](../Page/Inktomi_\(company\).md "wikilink") or
[Teoma](../Page/Teoma.md "wikilink") databases.\[1\]

### 20世纪90年代

Up to 2011, the HotBot website was merely a [front
end](../Page/Front_and_back_ends.md "wikilink") for three third-party
search engines ([Yahoo.com](../Page/Yahoo.com.md "wikilink"),
[MSN](../Page/MSN_Search.md "wikilink"), and lyGo.com). The site still
had an outdated classic design, and to search with HotBot, one had to
click on which search engine of these three to use.

### 重新开张

In July 2011, HotBot was relaunched with a new robot-like mascot, a new
logo, and a modern site design. In the beta, HotBot became a portal,
returning not just web search results, but also searches from various
Lycos websites, such as News, Shopping and [Weather
Zombie](../Page/Weather_Zombie.md "wikilink"). The portal interface
lasted for roughly 6 months, and these features were instead
reincorporated into the 2012 Lycos website redesign, returning HotBot to
a simplified search interface.

## 工具欄

早在2004年，Lycos推出了免費的搜索產品工具欄的測試版,[DeskTop](../Page/DeskTop.md "wikilink")。該公司說这是“第一個整合瀏覽器中的Web搜索與傳統的桌面搜索的產品。"
在HotBot的DeskTop可以搜索使用了[Inktomi的互聯網](../Page/Inktomi.md "wikilink"),
e-mail folders for [Microsoft
Outlook](../Page/Microsoft_Outlook.md "wikilink") or [Outlook
Express](../Page/Outlook_Express.md "wikilink"), and user documents
stored on a hard drive. It also incorporated a blocker for pop-up ads
and an RSS News Reader syndication. Indexes created to track e-mail and
user files remained stored locally to protect user privacy. Text-based
ads were displayed when viewing results for several types of Internet
searches. Lycos licensed
[dtSearch](../Page/DtSearch_Corp..md "wikilink") technology to power the
local search options.\[2\]

## 参考

<references/>

## 外部链接

  - [HotBot](http://www.hotbot.com/)

[Category:網路搜尋引擎](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:網路搜尋引擎 "wikilink")
[Category:1996年建立的网站](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1996年建立的网站 "wikilink")

1.  [HotBot: A brief history of the HotBot search
    engine](http://www.websearchworkshop.co.uk/hotbot_history.php)
2.  [Lycos HotBot Offers Free DeskTop Toolbar -
    March, 2004](http://newsbreaks.infotoday.com/nbreader.asp?ArticleID=16488)