1\. Qingdao Dabao: The top one in the list is Qingdao Dabao. Qingdao
Dabao is one of Qingdao's ten characteristic snacks. It has been named
"Shandong snacks" and "Chinese famous snacks". Its skin is very thin and
its taste is delicious, which is very popular. There are many kinds of
fillings, such as diced meat, seasonal vegetables and so on.

2.2. Laiwu Burning Cake: Laiwu Burning Cake in Hanging Furnace, I
believe you are not very familiar with this. No one who spent 1-2 years
in Jinan, the provincial capital, did not know Laiwu Burning Cake in
Hanging Furnace. Laiwu suspension oven pancake is an "ellipse" shape. It
is covered with sesame, very thin and fragrant. There is a big hollow in
the middle of the suspension oven pancake. The bottom is soft but very
crisp. Some are original, some are salty, and some are filled with
stuffing, such as leek stuffing, cabbage stuffing, ham stuffing. In many
sheep soup restaurants, hammer cake is also provided. It's delicious,
crispy and tender.

3.3. Zaozhuang vegetable pancakes: Zaozhuang Tengzhou vegetable pancakes
are very famous and delicious, and they are a popular food. The
materials are flour, vegetables, eggs, intestines and so on. They were
first circulated in Zaozhuang, Jining, Xuzhou and other places, and then
in the surrounding provinces. Now walking in the street, you will find
countless dish pancake stores, ready-to-sell, very convenient, fast and
delicious.

4\. Weifang meat fire: Weifang Meat fire is one of the traditional
snacks in Weifang. Weifang Meat fire in the local and foreign names are
also different, its variety, the most famous is meat fire, skin is very
crisp and soft, eat very fragrant but not greasy.

5\. Jinan Yam for Drawing Silk: It has the title of "one of the ten
famous foods in Shandong Province". The color is persimmon. When
choosing one piece, it can pull out long silk. It's crisp, sweet and
delicious. It's an indispensable table-pressing beet.