1.Shanxi pasta. There is a saying that "the world pasta is in China, and
the Chinese pasta is in Shanxi." Shanxi pasta can be said to be famous
in the world. There are various kinds of foods in Shanxi, and there are
various kinds of pasta materials, such as: wheat flour, sorghum noodles,
bean noodles, noodles, noodles, etc., in various forms, such as:
noodles, ramen, cat ears, noodles, noodles, sputum , enema, etc., is a
hundred-dimensional, one-sided taste. In terms of production process,
pasta can be divided into three categories: steamed pasta, cooked pasta,
and cooked pasta.

2.Changzhi sheep soup. One of the characteristics of Changzhi Huguan
Yangtang is to taste the whole sheep. That is, there must be seven or
eight lamb dumplings, three or five lamb meatballs, several stews, blood
strips, fat oil and head, hooves and mouth strips in a bowl of soup. The
strips or blocks cut into the stomach, intestines, heart, liver, lungs,
waist, etc., except for the sheep's fur, are all in the old soup. It is
no wonder that it can make up for it. Smell its fragrance and think
about it.

3.Set the steamed meat. The ingredients are mainly made from lean pork
minced meat, plus potatoes, starch, vegetable oil and seasonings. It has
the characteristics of meaty smell, endless aftertaste, and more food
and not greasy. It is often used to supplement the necessary nutrients
and overcome the disadvantages of high fat and high cholesterol in meat
products. A special dish that has been made with meat but not with meat.
This dish can be eaten hot and cold, and the taste is a must.

4.Shanxi bowl support. There are white bowls on the bowl, and there are
also bowls of noodles. The diners can choose according to their own
eating habits, and the bowls are also available for a variety of meals.
They can be served with cold, fragrant, smooth and delicious. You can
also stir-fry, add the fried lard into the cooked lard, add the onion
and garlic, pour the bowl into the strip, add the yam egg silk or bean
sprouts, and then add the seasonings such as water, soy sauce and
vinegar. . After being cooked, the scent is overflowing and tempting.

5.Datong rabbit head. Friends who first arrived in Datong, don't be
scared by the appearance of this special food, such as the fist-sized
bunny head, one pot and one pot appeared in the restaurants in the
alleys of Datong Street. The taste of the rabbit's head is soy sauce,
spicy, and the taste is called a foot. It is a favorite to eat.