**伪三维**（又称为**2.5D**、**假3D**），是一种用于在二维画面中所应用的技术，使得图像或场景有着三维的视觉效果。對於[電子遊戲來說](../Page/電子遊戲.md "wikilink")，[多邊形技術未成熟或是遊戲主機](../Page/多邊形.md "wikilink")（[電腦](../Page/電腦.md "wikilink")、[电子游戏机](../Page/电子游戏机.md "wikilink")）機能不足以支持的時代，產生了許多过渡產物。此类游戏雖然有著看似立體的外观，可是卻並非真正意義上的三维遊戲，因此一般都統稱為伪三维遊戲。在部分三维图形游戏中，仅使用平面坐标或使用固定相机位置的游戏同样被称作伪三维游戏。作为对比，没有以上限制的三维图形技术游戏就被称为真三维游戏。

## 计算机图形

### 等轴测投影和斜向投影

[Lincity-ng.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Lincity-ng.png "fig:Lincity-ng.png")''将二维等轴测投影图像组合在一起来形成伪三维效果\]\]

在[等轴测投影和](../Page/等轴测投影.md "wikilink")[斜向投影这两种投影的形式中](../Page/三维投影.md "wikilink")，视角被轻微转动来使得物体的其他面可见，产生一种三维环境的感觉。可以认为一个物体被“倾斜放置“在屏幕前\[1\]。图像可以被看作该物体在游戏平面上以特定角度的投影\[2\]且不同边的长度根据投影位置关系被分别调整。

这种效果常用于二维游戏的相机透视效果。在[第四世代游戏机和](../Page/第四世代游戏机历史.md "wikilink")[掌上游戏机中较为常见](../Page/掌上游戏机.md "wikilink")。较新的[战略游戏和](../Page/战略游戏.md "wikilink")[角色扮演游戏也经常用到](../Page/角色扮演游戏.md "wikilink")。它结合了俯视视角游戏的角色的操控性和[横版游戏的角色辨识度](../Page/橫向捲軸遊戲.md "wikilink")。这样玩家就能够获得游戏世界的一个俯视视角，同时能够看到角色的身体侧面细节，而不是像俯视游戏一样只能够看到角色头顶和肩部。

等轴测投影有三大类别：*等距投影*
，*二轴测投影*（对称与不对称）和*三角投影*。等距投影在[工程绘图较为常见](../Page/工程绘图.md "wikilink")。这种投影方法旋转物体使得三条坐标轴投影的夹角均为120度。这样的好处是物体在三个方向上的缩放长度均相等。在游戏中，为方便在方形像素显示器上进行抗锯齿处理，大部分投影处理选择2:1的像素长宽比例。

*Ultima VII: The Black Gate* 和*Paperboy* 均使用等轴测投影，而*[SimCity
2000](../Page/SimCity_2000.md "wikilink")*、角色扮演游戏*Diablo* 和*Baldur's
Gate* 均使用斜向投影。

### 看板

在三维场景中，看板技术常常指视野中的一个二维图像元素。因其效果类似于[看板的外观而得名](../Page/看板.md "wikilink")。这项技术常常被用于1990年早期的游戏中，因当时设备机能限制，无法很好的渲染全三维的物体。这项技术也同样被应用于背景中。当一个物体距离相机过远时，可以将其用二维的[精灵图代替](../Page/精灵图.md "wikilink")，同时可以使游戏获得显著的性能提升。在游戏中最为常见的看板技术莫过于粒子（雨滴，烟，火花等）和分辨率要求不高的的植被。<cite>*侏罗纪公园：侵入者*</cite>
就是经典案例之一。这项技术曾经被大量游戏应用，如<cite>*Rome: Total War*</cite>
将其用于表示战场上成千上万的独立士兵。第一人称射击游戏*[Duke
Nukem 3D](../Page/Duke_Nukem_3D.md "wikilink")*
和赛车游戏*[马力欧卡丁车](../Page/马力欧卡丁车.md "wikilink")*
均有用到此项技术。

### 天空盒与穹顶

[Skybox_example.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Skybox_example.png "fig:Skybox_example.png")
天空盒或穹顶被用于创造一个看起来比实际视野更加广阔的环境。如果使用的是方形的天空盒，远到无法触及的物体如高山和云等将会以方形贴图技术表现在四周，创造出一种三维空间遥远物体的感觉。穹顶则使用[球体或半球体](../Page/球体.md "wikilink")。

天空盒或穹顶一般随着视野位置一起移动，来让观察者感到其贴图上的景物十分遥远。因为在真实世界中，随着观察者移动，远处的景物看起来也并不会有太大改变。因此，天空盒或穹顶中的景物看起来与观察者始终保持着无限远的距离。在背景贴图中不应包含过多分离的物体或较近的物体，否则将会导致观察者移动时发现物体仍然静止，从而产生违和感。

### 近大远小

在某些游戏里，部分物体的大小会随着与玩家的远近不同而改变。[世嘉于](../Page/世嘉.md "wikilink")1986年发布的游戏*Out
Run* 就是一个典型例子。

在*Out Run*
中，玩家需驾驶一辆[法拉利深入游戏场景](../Page/法拉利.md "wikilink")。街道两侧的棕榈树虽使用同一个[位图](../Page/位图.md "wikilink")，但被缩放到不同的大小以营造远近感。大量消耗内存的看板被*Out
Run* 用于渲染即使在最高能见度模式下也看不到边际的水波和玉米地。

*Drakkhen*
作为第一个宣称使用三维场景的[角色扮演游戏值得一提](../Page/角色扮演游戏.md "wikilink")。然而，游戏并不包含三维引擎，而是使用缩放玩家的算法来营造类似的效果。玩家的队伍在向量控制的场景内活动，而所有的物体都根据距离进行缩放。
*Drakkhen* 还带有动态昼夜交替和开放世界游戏，均在同时代游戏中难得一见。此类引擎后来被用于*Eternam* 游戏。

某些移动端游戏，比如*Asphalt: Urban GT 2* 和*Asphalt 3: Street Rules*
的移动版，使用这种方法渲染景物和楼房。

### 平行滚动

[Parallax_scroll.gif](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Parallax_scroll.gif "fig:Parallax_scroll.gif")
[平行滚动指一组二维](../Page/平行.md "wikilink")[精灵图或图片层独立于背景以不同的速度移动来营造景深的效果](../Page/精灵图.md "wikilink")。\[3\]
上世纪40年代，[传统动画所使用的多平面相机衍生出了这项技术](../Page/传统动画.md "wikilink")。\[4\]
这种技术最初被用于1982年的[街机游戏](../Page/街机游戏.md "wikilink")*Moon
Patrol*。.\[5\] *Rise of the Triad*
的天空，*Rygar*，*[刺猬索尼克](../Page/刺猬索尼克.md "wikilink")*，*Street
Fighter II*，*Shadow of the Beast*，*Dracula X
Chronicles*，*[超级马力欧世界](../Page/超级马里奥世界.md "wikilink")*
中靠近靠近幻象森林出口的一关和未使用的一关。

### Mode 7

Mode
7是[电子游戏机](../Page/电子游戏机.md "wikilink")[超级任天堂的一种图形方式](../Page/超级任天堂.md "wikilink")，可让逐扫描线式的背景层支持旋转与缩放以创造大量不同的三维效果。

### 射线渲染

[Simple_raycasting_with_fisheye_correction.gif](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Simple_raycasting_with_fisheye_correction.gif "fig:Simple_raycasting_with_fisheye_correction.gif")
使用射线渲染技术的游戏在相机位置从不同角度射出多条“射线”，当它们碰到墙或物体时，将会在屏幕对应位置渲染图像。\[6\]
早期的[第一人称射击游戏使用射线渲染来创造一个类似于三维的效果](../Page/第一人称射击游戏.md "wikilink")。即使看上去是三维世界，玩家既不能上下转动视角，也不能跳跃或蹲下，因为地图仍是二维的。

### 凹凸贴图，法线贴图和视差贴图

**凹凸贴图**，**法线贴图**和**视差贴图**是在[3D渲染](../Page/3D渲染.md "wikilink")（例如视频游戏）中处理纹理的技术，以在不需要渲染额外[多边形的情况下表现出物体表面上的凹凸纹路](../Page/三维计算机图形.md "wikilink")。经过此类技术处理后，诸如石墙等表面的纹理外观将具有更明显的深度，看起来更为真实，对渲染的负载影响也较小。

**凹凸贴图**技术根据一张叫做“高度图”的灰度图片，在光照计算期间扰动物体的表面法线来实现物体表面凹凸不平的效果。尽管物体的表面形状实际上没有改变，视觉上该物体的表面已经变得凹凸不平。凹凸贴图技术由Blinn于1978年引入。\[7\]

[Bump-map-demo-full.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bump-map-demo-full.png "fig:Bump-map-demo-full.png")

**法线贴图**将阴影点到光源方向的单位矢量与垂直于该表面的单位矢量相乘，得到的[数量积即为该表面上的亮度](../Page/数量积.md "wikilink")。你无法用多边形构造一个完美的球体，但通过在你的“球体”上应用一个3通道位图贴图，可以加入更精致的多边形效果。该位图中的每个通道对应一个空间维度（XYZ），这些空间维度关联于某个恒定坐标系来计算基于该对象的[物体空间凹凸贴图](../Page/向量空间.md "wikilink")，或某个缓慢变化的坐标系（由贴图材质坐标的位置决定）来计算基于对象切面的[切空间凹凸贴图](../Page/切空间.md "wikilink")。与先进的照明技术相结合，法线贴图可以有效地为你的“球体”表面增加更多细节。

**Parallax mapping** (also called **offset mapping** or **virtual
displacement mapping**) is an enhancement of the bump mapping and normal
mapping techniques implemented by displacing the texture coordinates at
a point on the rendered polygon by a function of the view angle in
tangent space (the angle relative to the surface normal) and the value
of the [height map](../Page/height_map.md "wikilink") at that point. At
steeper view-angles, the texture coordinates are displaced more, giving
the illusion of depth due to [parallax](../Page/parallax.md "wikilink")
effects as the view changes.

## 影视和动画技术

The term is also used to describe an
[animation](../Page/animation.md "wikilink") effect commonly used in
music videos and, more frequently, title sequences. Brought to wide
attention by the motion picture *[The Kid Stays in the
Picture](../Page/The_Kid_Stays_in_the_Picture.md "wikilink")* based on
the book by film producer [Robert
Evans](../Page/Robert_Evans_\(film_producer\).md "wikilink"), it
involves the layering and animating of two-dimensional pictures in three
dimensional space. Earlier examples of this technique include [Liz
Phair](../Page/Liz_Phair.md "wikilink")'s music video Down directed by
Rodney Ascher and "A Special Tree" directed by musician [Giorgio
Moroder](../Page/Giorgio_Moroder.md "wikilink").

## 平面设计

[Panel_Aqua_Icons.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Panel_Aqua_Icons.svg "fig:Panel_Aqua_Icons.svg")
The term also refers to an often-used effect in the design of
[icons](../Page/Icon_\(computing\).md "wikilink") and [graphical user
interfaces](../Page/graphical_user_interface.md "wikilink") (GUIs),
where a slight 3D illusion is created by the presence of a virtual light
source to the left (or in some cases right) side, and above a person's
[computer](../Page/computer.md "wikilink")
[monitor](../Page/computer_display.md "wikilink"). The light source
itself is always invisible, but its effects are seen in the lighter
colors for the top and left side, simulating reflection, and the darker
colours to the right and below of such objects, simulating shadow.

An advanced version of this technique can be found in some specialised
graphic design software, such as Pixologic's
[ZBrush](../Page/ZBrush.md "wikilink"). The idea is that the program's
canvas represents a normal 2D painting surface, but that the data
structure that holds the pixel information is also able to store
information with respect to a [z-index](../Page/z-index.md "wikilink"),
as well material settings, specularity, etc. Again, with this data it is
thus possible to simulate lighting, shadows, and so forth.

## 2.5D 平台游戏

[Trine_2_-_Deadly_Dustland_Scorpion.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Trine_2_-_Deadly_Dustland_Scorpion.jpg "fig:Trine_2_-_Deadly_Dustland_Scorpion.jpg")''
features 3D graphics, yet its gameplay is restricted to a 2D plane.\]\]
The term "2.5D" is also applied to 3D games that use polygonal graphics
to render the world and/or characters, but whose gameplay is restricted
to a 2D plane. Examples include
*[Pandemonium\!](../Page/Pandemonium!_\(video_game\).md "wikilink")*,
*[Einhänder](../Page/Einhänder.md "wikilink")*, *[Klonoa: Door to
Phantomile](../Page/Klonoa:_Door_to_Phantomile.md "wikilink")*, *[Kirby
64: The Crystal
Shards](../Page/Kirby_64:_The_Crystal_Shards.md "wikilink")* (although
the scene moves towards and away from the camera),
*[LittleBigPlanet](../Page/LittleBigPlanet.md "wikilink")* (although it
features a playing field three layers thick), *[Nights into
Dreams...](../Page/Nights_into_Dreams....md "wikilink")* and *[New Super
Mario Bros](../Page/New_Super_Mario_Bros.md "wikilink")*. The [*Crash
Bandicoot* series](../Page/Crash_Bandicoot_series.md "wikilink") is
sometimes referred to as 2.5D because the characters and scenery are
rendered in 3D, yet most of its levels are not as free-roaming as "true"
3D platformers.

Some fighting games such as the [*Super Smash Bros.*
series](../Page/Super_Smash_Bros._series.md "wikilink"), *[Marvel vs.
Capcom 3](../Page/Marvel_vs._Capcom_3.md "wikilink")*, *[Street Fighter
IV](../Page/Street_Fighter_IV.md "wikilink")*, *[Mortal
Kombat](../Page/Mortal_Kombat_\(2011_video_game\).md "wikilink")*,
*[BlazBlue](../Page/BlazBlue:_Calamity_Trigger.md "wikilink")*, *[Guilty
Gear Xrd](../Page/Guilty_Gear_Xrd.md "wikilink")* and *[The King of
Fighters XIV](../Page/The_King_of_Fighters_XIV.md "wikilink")* also
utilize 2.5D to showcase 3D backdrops and/or characters while limiting
the action to a 2D plane. 2D scrolling shooters are another genre in
which 3D graphics are often used in a 2D game, such as in
*[Ikaruga](../Page/Ikaruga.md "wikilink")*.

In some games, such as *[Goemon's Great
Adventure](../Page/Goemon's_Great_Adventure.md "wikilink")* and
*[Pandemonium\!](../Page/Pandemonium!_\(video_game\).md "wikilink")*,
the area of gameplay can be described as a two-dimensional surface
twisting and bending in a three-dimensional space. Inside this surface,
the character and physics behave like in a traditional sidescrolling
platformer. There are, however, a number of twists that aren't possible
with normal sidescroller platformers: it is common in such games to let
the two-dimensional plane cross itself or other planes on certain
points, thus creating "track switches" in the course. Players can
explore different areas of the 3D world that way or can be brought back
to previous points seamlessly. Interactions with the "background"
(non-accessible points in the 3D landscape) are also used extensively.
Other 2.5D games allow the character to interact with objects out of the
primare 2D plane; for example in the platformer-shooter *[Shadow
Complex](../Page/Shadow_Complex.md "wikilink")*, the player may need to
target and fire at enemies that are in the background of the scene.\[8\]

## 历史

The first video games that used pseudo-3D were primarily [arcade
games](../Page/arcade_game.md "wikilink"), the earliest known examples
dating back to the mid-1970s, when they began using
[microprocessors](../Page/microprocessor.md "wikilink"). In 1975,
[Taito](../Page/Taito.md "wikilink") released
*[Interceptor](../Page/Tomohiro_Nishikado#Interceptor.md "wikilink")*,\[9\]
an early [first-person
shooter](../Page/first-person_shooter.md "wikilink") and [combat flight
simulator](../Page/combat_flight_simulator.md "wikilink") that involved
piloting a [jet fighter](../Page/Fighter_aircraft.md "wikilink"), using
an eight-way [joystick](../Page/joystick.md "wikilink") to aim with a
crosshair and shoot at enemy aircraft that move in formations of two and
increase/decrease in size depending on their distance to the
player.\[10\] In 1976, [Sega](../Page/Sega.md "wikilink") released
*[Moto-Cross](../Page/Fonz_\(arcade\).md "wikilink")*, an early
black-and-white [motorbike](../Page/motorbike.md "wikilink") [racing
video game](../Page/racing_video_game.md "wikilink"), based on the
[motocross](../Page/motocross.md "wikilink") competition, that was most
notable for introducing an early three-dimensional
[third-person](../Page/Third_person_\(video_games\).md "wikilink")
perspective.\[11\] Later that year,
[Sega-Gremlin](../Page/Gremlin_Industries.md "wikilink") re-branded the
game as *[Fonz](../Page/Fonz_\(arcade\).md "wikilink")*, as a tie-in for
the popular [sitcom](../Page/sitcom.md "wikilink"), *[Happy
Days](../Page/Happy_Days.md "wikilink")*.\[12\] Both versions of the
game displayed a constantly changing forward-scrolling road and the
player's bike in a third-person perspective where objects nearer to the
player are larger than those nearer to the horizon, and the aim was to
steer the vehicle across the road, racing against the clock, while
avoiding any on-coming motorcycles or driving off the road.\[13\]\[14\]
That same year also saw the release of two arcade games that extended
the car [driving](../Page/driving.md "wikilink") subgenre into three
dimensions with a
[first-person](../Page/First_person_\(video_games\).md "wikilink")
perspective: Sega's *Road Race*, which displayed a constantly changing
forward-scrolling S-shaped road with two obstacle race cars moving along
the road that the player must avoid crashing while racing against the
clock,\[15\] and [Atari](../Page/Atari.md "wikilink")'s *[Night
Driver](../Page/Night_Driver_\(arcade_game\).md "wikilink")*, which
presented a series of posts by the edge of the road though there was no
view of the road or the player's car. Games using [vector
graphics](../Page/vector_graphics.md "wikilink") had an advantage in
creating pseudo-3D effects. 1979's *Speed Freak* recreated the
perspective of *Night Driver* in greater detail.

In 1979, [Nintendo](../Page/Nintendo.md "wikilink") debuted *[Radar
Scope](../Page/Radar_Scope.md "wikilink")*, a [shoot 'em
up](../Page/shoot_'em_up.md "wikilink") that introduced a
three-dimensional third-person perspective to the genre, imitated years
later by [shooters](../Page/Shooter_game.md "wikilink") such as
[Konami](../Page/Konami.md "wikilink")'s *[Juno
First](../Page/Juno_First.md "wikilink")* and
[Activision](../Page/Activision.md "wikilink")'s
*[Beamrider](../Page/Beamrider.md "wikilink")*.\[16\] In 1980, Atari's
*[Battlezone](../Page/Battlezone_\(1980_video_game\).md "wikilink")* was
a breakthrough for pseudo-3D gaming, recreating a 3D perspective with
unprecedented realism, though the gameplay was still planar. It was
followed up that same year by *Red Baron*, which used scaling vector
images to create a forward scrolling [rail
shooter](../Page/rail_shooter.md "wikilink").

[Sega](../Page/Sega.md "wikilink")'s arcade shooter *[Space
Tactics](../Page/List_of_Sega_games.md "wikilink")*, released in 1980,
allowed players to take aim using crosshairs and shoot lasers into the
screen at enemies coming towards them, creating an early 3D
effect.\[17\] It was followed by other arcade shooters with a
first-person perspective during the early 1980s, including
[Taito](../Page/Taito.md "wikilink")'s 1981 release *[Space
Seeker](../Page/List_of_Taito_games.md "wikilink")*,\[18\] and Sega's
*[Star Trek](../Page/Star_Trek_\(arcade_game\).md "wikilink")* in
1982.\[19\] Sega's *[SubRoc-3D](../Page/SubRoc-3D.md "wikilink")* in
1982 also featured a first-person perspective and introduced the use of
[stereoscopic
3-D](../Page/List_of_stereoscopic_video_games.md "wikilink") through a
special eyepiece.\[20\] Sega's *[Astron
Belt](../Page/Astron_Belt.md "wikilink")* in 1983 was the first
[laserdisc video game](../Page/laserdisc_video_game.md "wikilink"),
using [full-motion video](../Page/full-motion_video.md "wikilink") to
display the graphics from a first-person perspective.\[21\]
[Third-person](../Page/Third-person_shooter.md "wikilink") rail shooters
were also released in arcades at the time, including Sega's
*[Tac/Scan](../Page/Tac/Scan.md "wikilink")* in 1982,\[22\]
[Nippon](../Page/Nippon_Electric_Company.md "wikilink")'s *Ambush* in
1983,\[23\] [Nichibutsu](../Page/Nihon_Bussan.md "wikilink")'s *[Tube
Panic](../Page/Nihon_Bussan#1980s.md "wikilink")* in 1983,\[24\] and
Sega's 1982 release *[Buck Rogers: Planet of
Zoom](../Page/Buck_Rogers:_Planet_of_Zoom.md "wikilink")*,\[25\] notable
for its fast pseudo-3D scaling and detailed sprites.\[26\]

In 1981, Sega's *[Turbo](../Page/Turbo_\(video_game\).md "wikilink")*
was the first racing game to feature a third-person perspective, rear
view format.\[27\] It was also the first racing game to use
[sprite](../Page/Sprite_\(computer_graphics\).md "wikilink") scaling
with full-colour graphics.\[28\] *[Pole
Position](../Page/Pole_Position.md "wikilink")* by
[Namco](../Page/Namco.md "wikilink") is one of the first racing games to
use the trailing camera effect that is now so familiar. In this
particular example, the effect was produced by linescroll—the practice
of scrolling each line independently in order to warp an image. In this
case, the warping would simulate curves and steering. To make the road
appear to move towards the player, per-line color changes were used,
though many console versions opted for palette animation instead.

*[Zaxxon](../Page/Zaxxon.md "wikilink")*, a shooter introduced by Sega
in 1982, was the first [game to use
isometric](../Page/Isometric_graphics_in_video_games.md "wikilink")
[axonometric projection](../Page/axonometric_projection.md "wikilink"),
from which its name is derived. Though Zaxxon's playing field is
semantically 3D, the game has many constraints which classify it as
2.5D: a fixed point of view, scene composition from sprites, and
movements such as bullet shots restricted to straight lines along the
axes. It was also one of the first video games to display shadows.\[29\]
The following year, Sega released the first pseudo-3D [isometric
platformer](../Page/Isometric_adventure_game.md "wikilink"), *[Congo
Bongo](../Page/Congo_Bongo.md "wikilink")*.\[30\] Another early
pseudo-3D [platform game](../Page/platform_game.md "wikilink") released
that year was [Konami](../Page/Konami.md "wikilink")'s *[Antarctic
Adventure](../Page/Antarctic_Adventure.md "wikilink")*, where the player
controls a penguin in a forward-scrolling third-person perspective while
having to jump over pits and obstacles.\[31\]\[32\]\[33\] It was one of
the earliest pseudo-3D games available on a computer, released for the
[MSX](../Page/MSX.md "wikilink") in 1983.\[34\] That same year,
[Irem](../Page/Irem.md "wikilink")'s *[Moon
Patrol](../Page/Moon_Patrol.md "wikilink")* was a
[side-scrolling](../Page/Side-scrolling_video_game.md "wikilink") [run &
gun](../Page/Run_and_gun_\(video_game\).md "wikilink") platform-shooter
that introduced the use of layered [parallax
scrolling](../Page/parallax_scrolling.md "wikilink") to give a pseudo-3D
effect.\[35\] In 1985, *[Space
Harrier](../Page/Space_Harrier.md "wikilink")* introduced Sega's "Super
Scaler" technology that allowed pseudo-3D
[sprite-scaling](../Page/Sprite_\(computer_graphics\)#Move_to_3D.md "wikilink")
at high [frame rates](../Page/frame_rate.md "wikilink"),\[36\] with the
ability to scale 32,000
[sprites](../Page/Sprite_\(computer_graphics\).md "wikilink") and fill a
moving landscape with them.\[37\]

The first original home [console
game](../Page/console_game.md "wikilink") to use pseudo-3D, and also the
first to use multiple camera angles mirrored on television sports
broadcasts, was *[Intellivision World Series
Baseball](../Page/Intellivision_World_Series_Baseball.md "wikilink")*
(1983) by [Don Daglow](../Page/Don_Daglow.md "wikilink") and [Eddie
Dombrower](../Page/Eddie_Dombrower.md "wikilink"), published by
[Mattel](../Page/Mattel.md "wikilink"). Its television sports style of
display was later adopted by 3D [sports
games](../Page/sports_game.md "wikilink") and is now used by virtually
all major team sports titles. In 1984, Sega ported several pseudo-3D
arcade games to the [Sega SG-1000](../Page/Sega_SG-1000.md "wikilink")
console, including a smooth conversion of the third-person pseudo-3D
rail shooter *Buck Rogers: Planet of Zoom*.\[38\]

With the advent of consoles and [computer
systems](../Page/computer_system.md "wikilink") that were able to handle
several thousands of [polygons](../Page/polygon.md "wikilink") (the most
basic element of *[3D computer
graphics](../Page/3D_computer_graphics.md "wikilink")*) per second and
the usage of 3D specialized [graphics processing
unit](../Page/graphics_processing_unit.md "wikilink"), pseudo 3D became
obsolete. But even today, there are computer systems in production, such
as cellphones, which are often not powerful enough to display *true* 3D
graphics, and therefore use pseudo-3D for that purpose. Interestingly,
many games from the 1980s' *pseudo-3D arcade era* and *16-bit console
era* are ported to these systems, giving the manufactures the
possibility to earn revenues from games that are now nearly twenty years
old.

By 1989, 2.5D representations were surfaces drawn with depth cues and a
part of graphic libraries like GINO.\[39\] 2.5D was also used in terrain
modeling with software packages such as ISM from Dynamic Graphics,
GEOPAK from Uniras and the Intergraph DTM system.\[40\] 2.5D surface
techniques gained popularity within the geography community because of
its ability to visualize the normal thickness to area ratio used in many
geographic models; this ratio was very small and reflected the thinness
of the object in relation to its width, which made it the object
realistic in a specific plane.\[41\] These representations were
axiomatic in that the entire subsurface domain was not used or the
entire domain could not be reconstructed; therefore, it used only a
surface and a surface is one aspect not the full 3D identity.\[42\]

[Geabios_alps.gif](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Geabios_alps.gif "fig:Geabios_alps.gif")\]\]
The resurgence of 2.5D or visual analysis, in natural and earth science,
has increased the role of computer systems in the creation of spatial
information in mapping.\[43\] GVIS has made real the search for
unknowns, real-time interaction with spatial data, and control over map
display and has paid particular attention to three-dimensional
representations.\[44\] Efforts in GVIS have attempted to expand higher
dimensions and make them more visible; most efforts have focused on
"tricking" vision into seeing three dimensions in a 2D plane.\[45\] Much
like 2.5D displays where the surface of a three dimensional object is
represented but locations within the solid are distorted or not
accessible.\[46\]

## Technical aspects and generalizations

The reason for using pseudo-3D instead of "real" 3D computer graphics is
that the system that has to simulate a three dimensional-looking graphic
is not powerful enough to handle the calculation-intensive routines of
3D computer graphics, yet is capable of using tricks of modifying 2D
graphics like [bitmaps](../Page/位图.md "wikilink"). One of these tricks
is to stretch a bitmap more and more, therefore making it larger with
each step, as to give the effect of an object coming closer and closer
towards the player.

Even simple shading and size of an image could be considered pseudo-3D,
as shading makes it look more realistic. If the light in a 2D game were
2D, it would only be visible on the outline, and because outlines are
often dark, they would not be very clearly visible. However, any visible
shading would indicate the usage of pseudo-3D lighting and that the
image uses pseudo-3D graphics. Changing the size of an image can cause
the image to appear to be moving closer or further away, which could be
considered simulating a third dimension.

Dimensions are the variables of the data and can be mapped to specific
locations in space; 2D data can be given 3D volume by adding a value to
the x, y, or z plane. "Assigning height to 2D regions of a topographic
map" associating every 2D location with a height/elevation value creates
a 2.5D projection; this is not considered a "true 3D representation",
however is used like 3D visual representation to "simplify visual
processing of imagery and the resulting spatial cognition".

## 参见

  - [3D computer graphics](../Page/3D_computer_graphics.md "wikilink")
  - [Bas-relief](../Page/Bas-relief.md "wikilink")
  - [Cel-shaded animation](../Page/Cel-shaded_animation.md "wikilink")
  - [Head-coupled
    perspective](../Page/Head-coupled_perspective.md "wikilink")
  - [Isometric graphics in video
    games](../Page/Isometric_graphics_in_video_games.md "wikilink")
  - [List of stereoscopic video
    games](../Page/List_of_stereoscopic_video_games.md "wikilink")
  - [Ray casting](../Page/Ray_casting.md "wikilink")
  - [Trompe-l'œil](../Page/Trompe-l'œil.md "wikilink")
  - [Vector graphics](../Page/Vector_graphics.md "wikilink")

## 参考资料

[Category:电子游戏术语](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:电子游戏术语 "wikilink")
[Category:电子游戏研发](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:电子游戏研发 "wikilink")

1.  [Axonometric
    Projection](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/axonometric%20projection),
    [Merriam-Webster](../Page/Merriam-Webster.md "wikilink")

2.
3.

4.

5.

6.  <http://lodev.org/cgtutor/raycasting.html>

7.  Blinn, James F. ["Simulation of Wrinkled
    Surfaces"](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=507101), Computer
    Graphics, Vol. 12 (3), pp. 286–292 SIGGRAPH-ACM (August 1978)

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.
14.
15.

16. [Where Were They Then: The First Games of Nintendo, Konami, and More
    (Nintendo)](https://web.archive.org/web/20121017222352/http://www.1up.com/do/feature?pager.offset=1&cId=3181467),
    [1UP](../Page/1UP.com.md "wikilink")

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.
27.

28. [IGN Presents the History of
    SEGA](http://uk.retro.ign.com/articles/974/974695p1.html),
    [IGN](../Page/IGN.md "wikilink")

29. Bernard Perron & Mark J. P. Wolf (2008), *Video game theory reader
    two*,
    [p. 158](https://books.google.com/books?id=oe0zNalKkTgC&pg=PA158),
    [Taylor & Francis](../Page/Taylor_&_Francis.md "wikilink"),

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.
35.

36. [IGN Presents the History of SEGA: World
    War](http://uk.retro.ign.com/articles/974/974695p3.html),
    [IGN](../Page/IGN.md "wikilink")

37. Bernard Perron & Mark J. P. Wolf (2008), *Video game theory reader
    two*, p. 157, [Taylor &
    Francis](../Page/Taylor_&_Francis.md "wikilink"),

38.
39. Raper, Jonathan. “The 3-dimensional geoscientific mapping and
    modeling system: a conceptual design.” In Three dimensional
    applications in Geographic Information Systems, edited by Jonathan
    F. Raper, 11–19. Philadelphia: Taylor and Francis Inc., 19.

40.
41.
42.
43. [MacEachren, Alan](../Page/Alan_MacEachren.md "wikilink"). "GVIS
    Facilitating Visual Thinking." In How Maps Work: Representation,
    Visualization, and Design, 355–458. New York: The Guilford Press,
    1995.

44.
45.
46.