**光滑織紋螺**（学名：），是[新腹足目](../Page/新腹足目.md "wikilink")[织纹螺科](../Page/织纹螺科.md "wikilink")*Zeuxis*的一种\[1\]\[2\]\[3\]\[4\]。主要分布于[中国大陆](../Page/中国大陆.md "wikilink")、[台湾](../Page/台湾.md "wikilink")，常栖息在潮下带\[5\]。

## 簡述

殼長從 15 mm 到 45 mm 不等。

The ovate, conical shell is smooth andof a uniform ashy white color. The
[spire](../Page/Spire_\(mollusc\).md "wikilink") is composed of eight
[whorls](../Page/Whorl_\(mollusc\).md "wikilink"). The upper ones are
slightly plaited, the lowest pretty large, marked with more or less
straight, longitudinal lines, approximate, and of a color a little
deeper and reddish. The base of the shell is ornamented with six or
seven furrows. The ovate
[aperture](../Page/Aperture_\(mollusc\).md "wikilink") is, white,
fawn-colored within. The thick outer
[lip](../Page/Lip_\(gastropod\).md "wikilink") is arcuated towards the
base, elevated exteriorly into a thick, very prominent margin. Within it
is striated throughout its whole length. The left lip is thick, and
partially covering the
[columella](../Page/Columella_\(gastropod\).md "wikilink"), which is
adorned with guttules one half of its length. The first of these
guttules, which is uppermost, is much more marked than the others. At
the base of the columella is found a very prominent fold, terminated by
a guttule formed like a flattened point. \[6\]

## Distribution

This marine species occurs in the tropical Western Pacific, off [East
India](../Page/East_India.md "wikilink"), the
[Philippines](../Page/Philippines.md "wikilink"), [Papua New
Guinea](../Page/Papua_New_Guinea.md "wikilink") and Australia ([New
South Wales](../Page/New_South_Wales.md "wikilink"), the [Northern
Territory](../Page/Northern_Territory.md "wikilink"),
[Queensland](../Page/Queensland.md "wikilink"), [Western
Australia](../Page/Western_Australia.md "wikilink"))

## 寄生蟲

  - *[Stephanostomum](../Page/Stephanostomum.md "wikilink")*-like
    [cercariae](../Page/cercaria.md "wikilink") from Australia:
    *Cercaria capricornia* VII\[7\] and *Cercaria capricornia* VIII\[8\]

## 異名

  - *Arcularia dorsata* <small>(Röding, 1798)</small>
  - *Buccinum dorsatum* <small>Röding, 1798</small>\[9\]\[10\]（原來名稱）
  - *Buccinum laeve sinuatum* <small>Chemnitz, 1780</small>
  - *Buccinum trifasciatum* <small>Gmelin, 1791</small>
  - *Buccinum unicolorum* <small>Kiener, 1834</small>
  - *Bullia cinerea* <small>Preston, 1906</small>
  - *Nassa (Alectrion) rutilans* <small>Reeve, 1853</small>
  - *Nassa dorsata* <small>(Röding, 1798)</small>
  - *Nassa laevis* <small>Mörch, 1852</small>
  - *Nassa livida* <small>Gray in King, 1827</small>
  - *Nassa nitidula* <small>Marrat, 1880</small>
  - *Nassa rutilans* <small>Reeve, 1853</small>
  - *Nassa trifasciata* <small>(Gmelin, 1791)</small>
  - *Nassa unicolor* <small>E. A. Smith, 1884</small>
  - *Nassa unicolorata* <small>Reeve, 1853</small>
  - *Nassarius (Zeuxis) dorsatus* <small>(Röding, 1798)</small> ·
    accepted, alternate representation
  - *Tarazeuxis unicolorus* <small>(Kiener, 1834)</small>
  - *Zeuxis dorsatus* <small>(Röding, 1798)</small>\[11\]

## 参考文献

  - Röding, P.F. 1798. *Museum Boltenianum sive Catalogus cimeliorum e
    tribus regnis naturae quae olim collegerat Joa*. Hamburg : Trappii
    199 pp.
  - Gray, J.E. 1826. Mollusca. pp. 474-496 in King, P.P. (ed.).
    *Narrative of a Survey of the Intertropical and Western Coasts of
    Australia. Performed between the years 1818 and 1822; with Appendix
    B*. London : John Murray Vol. 2 viii 637 pp., 9 pls.
  - Kiener, L.C. 1834. *Spécies général et Iconographie des coquilles
    vivantes, comprenant la collection du Muséum d'histoire Naturelle de
    Paris, la collection de Lamarck, celle du Prince Massena
    (appartenant maintenant a M. le Baron B. Delessert) et les
    découvertes récentes des voyageurs.* Paris : Rousseau Vol. 9.
  - Reeve, L.A. 1853. *Monograph of the genus Nassa*. pls 1-25 in Reeve,
    L.A. (ed). Conchologia Iconica. London : L. Reeve Vol. 8.
  - Cernohorsky W.O. (1981). *Revision of the Australian and New Zealand
    Tertiary and Recent species of the family Nassariidae (Mollusca:
    Gastropoda).* Records of the Auckland Institute and Museum
    18:137-192.
  - Cernohorsky, W.O. 1984. *Systematics of the family Nassariidae
    (Mollusca: Gastropoda).* Bulletin of the Auckland Institute and
    Museum. Auckland, New Zealand 14: 1-356
  - Wilson, B. 1994. *Australian Marine Shells. Prosobranch Gastropods.*
    Kallaroo, WA : Odyssey Publishing Vol. 2 370 pp.

## 外部連結

  - [Gastropods.com: *Nassarius (Zeuxis)
    dorsatus*](http://www.gastropods.com/5/Shell_3315.shtml)

[Category:织纹螺属](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:织纹螺属 "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.  [Kiener (1840). General species and iconography of recent shells :
    comprising the Massena Museum, the collection of Lamarck, the
    collection of the Museum of Natural History, and the recent
    discoveries of travellers; Boston :W.D.
    Ticknor,1837](http://ia801409.us.archive.org/6/items/generalspeciesic00kien/generalspeciesic00kien.pdf)
    (described as *Buccinum unicolorum*)

7.
8.  Barnett L. J., Miller T. L. & Cribb T. H. (2010). "Two new
    *Stephanostomum*-like cercariae (Digenea: Acanthocolpidae) from
    *Nassarius dorsatus* and *N. olivaceus* (Gastropoda: Nassariidae) in
    Central Queensland, Australia".
    *[Zootaxa](../Page/Zootaxa.md "wikilink")* **2445**: 35–52.
    [PDF](http://www.mapress.com/zootaxa/2010/f/zt02445p052.pdf).

9.
10.
11.