[右](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Drehmomentschlüssel_3360.jpg "fig:右")

力矩扳手是用特定力矩紧固螺母的工具，有特定机械结构的一种套筒扳手形态居多。

当螺钉和螺栓的紧密度至关重要的情况下，使用扭矩扳手可以允许操作员施加特定扭矩值。

扭矩螺丝刀和扭矩扳手具有相似的目的和机械机构。

## 历史

[缩略图](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:JHSharp-TorqueWrench-1931-Model.jpg "fig:缩略图")

The first patent for a torque wrench was filed by John H. Sharp of
Chicago in 1931. This wrench was referred to as a *torque measuring
wrench* and would be classified today as an indicating torque
wrench.\[1\]

In 1935, Conrad Bahr and George Pfefferle patented an adjustable
ratcheting torque wrench. The tool featured audible feedback and
restriction of back-ratcheting movement when the desired torque was
reached.\[2\] Bahr, who worked for the New York City Water Department,
was frustrated at the inconsistent tightness of flange bolts he found
while attending to his work. He claimed to have invented the first
torque limiting tool in 1918 to alleviate these problems.\[3\] Bahr's
partner, Pfefferle, was an engineer for [S.R. Dresser Manufacturing
Co](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dresser_Industries "wikilink") and
held several patents.

## 类型

### 梁式

The most basic form of torque wrench consists of two beams. The first is
a [lever](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/lever "wikilink") used to apply
the torque to the fastener being tightened and serves also as the handle
of the tool. When force is applied to the handle it will
[deflect](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deflection_\(engineering\) "wikilink")
predictably and proportionally with said force in accordance with
Hooke's law. The second beam is only attached at one end to the wrench
head and free on its other, this serves as the indicator beam. Both of
these beams run parallel to each other when the tool is at rest, with
the indicator beam usually on top. The indicator beam's free end is free
to travel over a calibrated scale attached to the lever or handle,
marked in units of torque. When the wrench is used to apply torque, the
lever bends and the indicating beam stays straight. Thus, the end of the
indicating beam points to the magnitude of the torque that is currently
being applied.\[4\] This type of wrench is simple, inherently accurate,
and inexpensive.

The beam type torque wrench was developed in between late 1920s and
early 1930s by [Walter Percy
Chrysler](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Percy_Chrysler "wikilink")
for the Chrysler Corporation and a company known as Micromatic Hone.
Paul Allen Sturtevant—a sales representative for the Cedar Rapids
Engineering Company at that time—was licensed by Chrysler to manufacture
his invention. Sturtevant patented the torque wrench in 1938 and became
the first individual to sell torque wrenches.\[5\]

A more sophisticated variation of the beam type torque wrench has a dial
gauge indicator on its body that can be configured to give a visual
indication, or electrical indication, or both when a preset torque is
reached.\[6\]\[7\]

### 偏转横梁式

The dual-signal deflecting beam torque wrench was patented by the
Australian [Warren and
Brown](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warren_and_Brown "wikilink")
company in 1948.\[8\] It employs the principle of applying torque to a
deflecting beam rather than a coil spring. This is claimed to help
prolong the accuracy of the wrench throughout its working life, with a
greater safety margin on maximum loading and provides more consistent
and accurate readings throughout the range of each wrench. The operator
can both hear the signal click and see a visible indicator when the
desired torque is reached.\[9\]

[缩略图](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Deflecting_torque_concept.png "fig:缩略图")

The wrench functions in the same general way as an ordinary beam torque
wrench. There are two beams both connected to the head end but only one
through which torque is applied. The load carrying beam is straight and
runs from head to handle, it deflects when torque is applied. The other
beam (indicating beam) runs directly above the deflecting beam for about
half of the length then bends away to the side at an angle from the
deflecting beam. The indicating beam retains its orientation and shape
during operation. Because of this, there is relative displacement
between the two beams. The deflecting beam torque wrench differs from
the ordinary beam torque wrench in how it utilizes this relative
displacement. Attached to the deflecting beam is a scale and onto that
is fitted a wedge which can be slid along the length of the scale
parallel to the flexing beam. This wedge is used to set the desired
torque. Directly facing this wedge is the side of the angled indicating
beam. From this side protrudes a pin, which acts as a trigger for
another pin, the latter pin is spring loaded, and fires out of the end
of the indicating beam once the trigger pin contacts the adjustable
wedge. This firing makes a loud click and gives a visual indication that
the desired torque has been met. The indicator pin can be reset by
simply pressing it back into the indicating beam.\[10\]\[11\]

### Slipper

[缩略图](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Slipper_torque_concept.png "fig:缩略图")
A slipper type torque wrench consists of a roller and cam (or similar)
mechanism. The cam is attached to the driving head, the roller pushes
against the cam locking it in place with a specific force which is
provided by a spring (which is in many cases adjustable). If a torque is
demanded which is able to defeat the holding force of the roller and
spring, the wrench will slip and no torque will be applied to the bolt.
A slipper torque wrench will not over tighten the fastener by continuing
to apply torque beyond a predetermined limit.\[12\]

### Click

A more sophisticated method of presetting torque is with a calibrated
[clutch](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/clutch "wikilink") mechanism. One
common form uses a [ball
detent](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ball_detent "wikilink") and
[spring](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spring_\(device\) "wikilink"),
with the spring preloaded by an adjustable [screw
thread](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/screw_thread "wikilink"),
calibrated in torque units. The ball detent transmits force until the
preset torque is reached, at which point the force exerted by the spring
is overcome and the ball "clicks" out of its socket. This design yields
greater precision as well as giving tactile and audible feedback. The
wrench will not start slipping once the desired torque is reached, it
will only click and bend slightly at the head; the operator can continue
to apply torque to the wrench without any additional action or warnings
from the wrench.\[13\]\[14\]

A number of variations of this design exist for different applications
and different torque ranges. A modification of this design is used in
some [drills](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/drills "wikilink") to
prevent gouging the heads of screws while tightening them. (The drill
will start slipping once the desired torque is reached).

### “无毂”扳手

通常是管道工使用的专用力矩扳手，用于拧紧无管土壤管接头上的夹紧带。
它们通常是带有单向组合棘轮和离合器的T型扳手。通常预设为固定扭矩，旨在充分固定联轴器但不至于损坏联轴器。\[15\]

### 电子套筒扳手

[缩略图](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:DAZ-T50.JPG "fig:缩略图")  With
electronic (indicating) torque wrenches, measurement is by means of a
[strain gauge](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/strain_gauge "wikilink")
attached to the torsion rod. The signal generated by the transducer is
converted to the required unit of torque (e.g. N·m or lb<sub>f</sub>·ft)
and shown on the digital display. A number of different joints
(measurement details or limit values) can be stored. These programmed
limit values are then permanently displayed during the tightening
process by means of LEDs or the display. At the same time, this
generation of torque wrenches can store all the measurements made in an
internal readings memory. This readings memory can then be easily
transferred to a PC via the interface (RS232) or printed straight to a
printer. A popular application of this kind of torque wrench is for
in-process documentation or quality assurance purposes. Typical accuracy
level would be +/- 0.5% to 4%.

### 可编程电子力矩/角度扳手

Torque measurement is conducted in the same way as with an electronic
torque wrench but the tightening angle from the snug point or threshold
is also measured. The angle is measured by an angle sensor or electronic
gyroscope. The angle measurement process enables joints which have
already been tightened to be recognized. The inbuilt readings memory
enables measurements to be statistically evaluated. Tightening curves
can be analyzed using the software via the integrated tightening-curve
system (force/path graph). This type of torque wrench can also be used
to determine breakaway torque, prevail torque and the final torque of a
tightening job. Thanks to a special measuring process, it is also
possible to display the yield point (yield controlled tightening). This
design of torque wrench is highly popular with automotive manufacturers
for documenting tightening processes requiring both torque and angle
control because, in these cases, a defined angle has to be applied to
the fastener on top of the prescribed torque (e.g.  + 90° - here the
means the snug point/threshold and +90° indicates that an additional
angle has to be applied after the threshold).

In 1995, [Saltus-Werk Max Forst
GmbH](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saltus-Werk_Max_Forst_GmbH "wikilink")
applied for an international patent for the first electronic torque
wrench with angle measurement which did not require a reference arm.

### 机械力矩扳手

[缩略图](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:DC-0-MA_SDM.jpg "fig:缩略图")

Torque measurement is achieved in the same way as with a click-type
torque wrench but, at the same time, the torque is measured as a digital
reading (click and final torque) as with an electronic torque wrench.
This is, therefore, a combination of electronic and mechanical
measurements. All the measurements are transferred and documented via
wireless data transmission. Users will know they have achieved the
desired torque setting when the wrench "beeps."

### 液压扭矩扳手

Hydraulic torque wrenches are used for tightening large torques with
high accuracy. They are used for aviation and heavy machinery assembly
and are specialized tools.\[16\] \[17\] Their general construction
varies depending on manufacturer and torque requirement. Generally, they
consist of at least one hydraulic cylinder operating a drive head
ratchet. The cylinder extends, pushing the drive head round via the
pawls, and then retracts freely over the ratcheting teeth. The process
is repeated until the desired torque is met. Smaller hydraulic torque
wrenches have a reaction arm built into the tool, which rests against
another fastener or part of the assembly to prevent rotation when torque
is being applied. Larger models require other fixing arrangements in
order to prevent rotation.\[18\]\[19\]\[20\]

## 力矩扳手标准

### ISO

The [International Organization for
Standardization](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Organization_for_Standardization "wikilink")
maintains standard ISO 6789. This standard covers the construction and
calibration of hand operated torque tools. They define two types of
torque tool encompassing twelve classes, these are given by the table
below. Also given is the percentage allowable deviation from the desired
torque.\[21\]\[22\]

| Torque wrench types | Torque wrench tolerance                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Type                | Class                                             |
| Type 1: Indicating  | Class A                                           |
| Class B             | Wrench with rigid body and indicator              |
| Class C             | Wrench with rigid body and electronic measurement |
| Class D             | Screwdriver with indicator                        |
| Class E             | Screwdriver with electronic measurement           |
| Type 2: Setting     | Class A                                           |
| Class B             | Fixed torque wrench                               |
| Class C             | Adjustable wrench without indicator               |
| Class D             | Adjustable screwdriver with indicator             |
| Class E             | Fixed screwdriver                                 |
| Class F             | Adjustable screwdriver without indicator          |
| Class G             | Adjustable wrench with flexing bar and indicator  |

The ISO standard also states that even when overloaded by 25% of the
maximum rating, the tool should remain reliably usable after being
re-calibrated. Re-calibration for tools used within their specified
limits should occur after 5000 cycles of torquing or 12 months,
whichever is soonest. In cases where the tool is in use in an
organization which has its own quality control procedures, then the
calibration schedule can be arranged according to company
standards.\[23\]\[24\]

Tools should be marked with their torque range and the unit of torque as
well as the direction of operation for unidirectional tools and the
maker's mark. If a calibration certificate is provided, the tool must be
marked with a serial number that matches the certificate or a
calibration laboratory should give the tool a reference number
corresponding with the tool's calibration certificate.\[25\]\[26\]

### ASME

The [American Society of Mechanical
Engineers](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Society_of_Mechanical_Engineers "wikilink")
maintains standard ASME B107.300. This standard has the same type
designation as the ISO standard with the addition of the type 3,
(limiting) torque tool. This type will release the drive once the
desired torque is met so that no more torque can be applied. This
standard, however, uses different class designations within each type as
well as additional style and design variants within each class. The
standard also separates manual and electronic tools into different
sections and designations. The ASME and ISO standards cannot be
considered compatible. The table below gives some of the types and
tolerances specified by the standard for manual torque tools. \[27\]
\[28\]

| Torque wrench types                       | Torque wrench tolerance     |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| Type                                      | Class                       |
| Type 1: Indicating                        | Class A: Deflecting beam    |
| Style 2: Scale with signal                |                             |
| Style 3: Scale with memory                |                             |
| Class B: Deflecting beam, changeable head | Style 1: Plain scale        |
| Style 2: Scale with signal                |                             |
| Style 3: Scale with memory                |                             |
| Class C: Rigid housing                    | Style 1: Plain scale        |
| Style 2: Scale with signal                |                             |
| Style 3: Scale with memory                |                             |
| Class D: Rigid housing, changeable head   | Style 1: Plain scale        |
| Style 2: Scale with signal                |                             |
| Style 3: Scale with memory                |                             |
| Class E: Screwdriver, indicating          | Style 1: Plain scale        |
| Style 2: Scale with signal                |                             |
| Type 2: Setting\[29\]                     | Class A: With graduation    |
| Style 2: With ratchet                     | ±0.8%                       |
| Style 3: Changeable head                  | ±0.8%                       |
| Style 4: Flexible head with ratchet       | See standard                |
| Class B: Without graduation               | Style 1: Without ratchet    |
| Style 2: With ratchet                     | ±0.8%                       |
| Style 3: Changeable head                  | ±0.8%                       |
| Style 4: Flexible head with ratchet       | See standard                |
| Type 3: Limiting                          | Class A: Screwdriver        |
| Style 2: With graduation                  |                             |
| Class B: T handle                         | Style 1: Without graduation |
| Style 2: With graduation                  |                             |

Tools should be marked with the model number of the tool, the unit of
torque and the maker's mark. For unidirectional tools, the word
"TORQUES" or "TORQUE" and the direction of operation must also be
marked.\[30\]

## 使用套筒扳手

### Precision

Click type torque wrenches are precise when properly calibrated—however
the more complex mechanism can result in loss of
[calibration](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/calibration "wikilink")
sooner than the beam type, where there is little to no malfunction,
(however the thin indicator rod can be accidentally bent out of true).
Beam type torque wrenches are impossible to use in situations where the
scale cannot be directly read—and these situations are common in
[automotive](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/automotive "wikilink")
applications. The scale on a beam type wrench is prone to
[parallax](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/parallax "wikilink") error, as
a result of the large distance between indicator arm and scale (on some
older designs). There is also the issue of increased user error with the
beam type—the torque has to be read at every use and the operator must
use caution to apply loads only at the floating handle's pivot point.
Dual-beam or "flat" beam versions reduce the tendency for the pointer to
rub, as do low-friction pointers.

### Extensions

The use of [cheater
bars](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/cheater_bar "wikilink") that extend
from the handle end can damage the wrench, so only manufacturer
specified equipment should be used.\[31\]

[右](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Torque_wrench_extension_3.png "fig:右")

Using handle or socket extensions requires no adjustment of the torque
setting.\[32\]

Using a crow's foot or similar extension requires the use of the
following equation:\[33\]\[34\]\[35\]

  -
    \(T_w = \frac{T_dA}{A+B}\)

using a combination of handle and crow's foot extensions requires the
use of the following equation:\[36\]

  -
    \(T_w = \frac{T_d(A+C)}{A+B+C}\)

where:

  -
    \(T_w\) is the wrench indicated torque (setting torque),
    \(T_d\) is the desired torque,
    \(A\) is the length of the torque wrench, from the handle to the
    centre of the head,
    \(B\) is the length of the crow's foot extension, from the centre of
    the torque wrench head to the centre line of the bolt,
    \(C\) is the length of the handle extension, from the extension end
    to the torque wrench handle.

These equations only apply if the extension is colinear with the length
of the torque wrench. In other cases, the distance from the torque
wrench's head to the bolt's head, as if it were in line, should be used.
If the extension is set at 90° then no adjustment is required. These
methods are not recommended except for extreme circumstances.\[37\]

### 存放

For click (or other micrometer) types, when not in use, the force acting
on the spring should be removed by setting the scale to its minimum
rated value in order to prevent permanent set in the spring.\[38\]\[39\]
Never set a micrometer style torque wrench to zero as the internal
mechanism requires a small amount of tension in order to prevent
components shifting and reduction of accuracy.\[40\] If a micrometer
tool has been stored with the setting above 20% the tool should be set
to 50% of full scale and exercised at least FIVE times before being
used. In the case of the beam type, there is no strain on the component
that provides the reference force except when it is in use, therefore,
accuracy is inherent.

### 校准

As with any precision tool, torque wrenches should be periodically
re-calibrated. As previously stated, according to ISO standards
calibration should happen every 5000 operations or every year, whichever
comes first.\[41\]\[42\] It is possible that torque wrenches can fall up
to 10% out of calibration in the first year of use.\[43\]

Calibration, when performed by a specialist service which follows ISO
standards, follows a specific process and constraints. The operation
requires specialist torque wrench calibration equipment with an accuracy
of ±1% or better. The temperature of the area where calibration is being
performed should be between 18 °C and 28 °C with no more than a 1 °C
fluctuation and the [relative
humidity](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/relative_humidity "wikilink")
should not exceed 90%.\[44\]

Before any calibration work can be done, the tool should be preloaded
and torqued without measure according to its type. The tool is then
connected to the tester and force is applied to the handle (at no more
than 10° from perpendicular) for values of 20%, 60% and 100% of the
maximum torque and repeated according to their class. The force should
be applied slowly and without jerky or irregular motion. The table below
gives more specifics regarding the pattern of testing for each class of
torque wrench.\[45\]\[46\]

| Type   | Class       | Pre-calibration                                   | Calibration procedure                  |
| ------ | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| Type 1 | All classes | Preload once at the highest certified value       | 5 measurements in a row for all values |
| Type 2 | Class A     | Preload five times at the highest certified value | 5 measurements in a row for all values |
|        | Class B     | 5 measurements at nominal value                   |                                        |
|        | Class C     | 10 measurements in a row for all values           |                                        |
|        | Class D     | 5 measurements in a row for all values            |                                        |
|        | Class E     | 5 measurements at nominal value                   |                                        |
|        | Class F     | 10 measurements in a row for all values           |                                        |
|        | Class G     | 5 measurements in a row for all values            |                                        |

While professional calibration is recommended, for some people it would
be out of their means. It is possible to calibrate a torque wrench in
the home shop or garage. The process generally requires that a certain
mass is attached to a lever arm and the torque wrench is set to the
appropriate torque to lift said mass. The error within the tool can be
calculated and the tool may be able to be altered or any work done
adjusted for this error.\[47\]\[48\]\[49\]

## 另见

  - [Dental torque
    wrench](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dental_torque_wrench "wikilink")
  - [Foot-pound
    force](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foot-pound_force "wikilink")
  - [Battery torque
    wrench](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battery_torque_wrench "wikilink")
  - [Hydraulic torque
    wrench](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydraulic_torque_wrench "wikilink")
  - [Impact
    wrench](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impact_wrench "wikilink")
  - [Micrometer](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micrometer "wikilink")
  - [Newton
    metre](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newton_metre "wikilink")
  - [Torque
    converter](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torque_converter "wikilink")
  - [Torque
    limiter](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torque_limiter "wikilink")
  - [Torque
    screwdriver](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torque_screwdriver "wikilink")
  - [Torque
    tester](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torque_tester "wikilink")
  - [Torsion
    (mechanics)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torsion_\(mechanics\) "wikilink")
  - [Wrench](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wrench "wikilink")

## 注释

## 参考

## 外部链接

  - [Measurement of Torque Wrench
    Accuracy](http://home.jtan.com/~joe/KIAT/kiat_3.htm)

[Category:工具](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:工具 "wikilink")
[Category:美国发明](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:美国发明 "wikilink")

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.
11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

28.

29. ASME Type 2 is somewhat complicated and cannot be elaborated on in
    depth without the table becoming too large for the article.

30.
31.

32.

33.
34.

35.

36.
37.
38.

39.

40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

48.

49.