**席文**（Nathan
Sivin，1931年5月11日）是[美国](../Page/美国.md "wikilink")[科技史学家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/科技史 "wikilink")。他和[李约瑟一样](../Page/李约瑟.md "wikilink")，以研究[中国科技史著名](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/中国科技史 "wikilink")。席文现为美国[宾夕法尼亚大学教授](../Page/宾夕法尼亚大学.md "wikilink")，专业为中国科技史、中国医学史、中国哲学和中国宗教。
个人主页：http://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/\~nsivin/index.html

## 著作

  - 1968\. *Chinese Alchemy: Preliminary Studies. Harvard Monographs in
    the History of Science*, 1. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
    Chinese translation, Taipei: National Translation Bureau, 1973.
  - 1969\. *Cosmos and Computation in Early Chinese Mathematical
    Astronomy*. Leiden: E. J. Brill. Separate book version of 1969 essay
    (see below).
  - 1973\. *Chinese Science: Explorations of an Ancient Tradition*. MIT
    East Asian Science Series, 2. Edited by Shigeru Nakayama & N.S.
    Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Includes an introduction and three
    articles by N.S., listed below.
  - 1977\. *Science and Technology in East Asia*. Articles from Isis,
    1913–1975. Selected and edited by N.S. New York: Science History
    Publications. Includes an introduction and an article by N.S.,
    listed below.
  - 1979\. *Astronomy in Contemporary China*. A Trip Report of the
    American Astronomy Delegation. By ten members of the Delegation.
    CSCPRC Reports, 7. Washington, DC: National Academy of Sciences.
    Includes several contributions by N.S., including a chapter on the
    history of astronomy.
  - 1980\. *Science and Civilisation in China. Vol. 5, Part 4. Chemical
    Discovery*. By Joseph Needham, Lu Gwei-djen, Ho Ping-yu, & N.S.
    Cambridge, England: At the University Press. Includes a section by
    N.S. on the theoretical background of laboratory alchemy.
  - 1984\. *Chūgoku no Kopernikusu (Copernicus in China)*, trans.
    Nakayama Shigeru & Ushiyama Teruyo 牛山輝代. Selected essays by N.S., 1.
    Tokyo: Shisakusha.
  - 1985\. *Chūgoku no renkinjutsu to ijutsu (Chinese alchemy and
    medicine)*, trans. Nakayama & Ushiyama. Idem, 2.
  - 1987\. *Traditional Medicine in Contemporary China*. A Partial
    Translation of Revised Outline of Chinese Medicine (1972) with an
    Introductory Study on Change in Present-day and Early Medicine.
    Science, Medicine and Technology in East Asia, 2. Ann Arbor:
    University of Michigan, Center for Chinese Studies.
  - 1988\. *Contemporary Atlas of China*. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
    Consulting Editor. German translation: Bildatlas China. München:
    Südwest, 1989.
  - 1989\. *Science and Medicine in Twentieth-Century China: Research
    and Education*, ed. John Z. Bowers, William J. Hess, & N.S. Science,
    Medicine, and Technology in East Asia, 3. Ann Arbor: Center for
    Chinese Studies, University of Michigan.
  - 1995\. *Science in Ancient China. Researches and Reflections*.
    Variorum Collected Studies Series. Aldershot, Hants: Variorum.
  - 1995\. *Medicine, Philosophy and Religion in Ancient China.
    Researches and Reflections*. Variorum Collected Studies Series.
    Idem.
  - 1996\. *History of Humanity. Scientific and Cultural Development*.
    Vol. III. From the Seventh Century BC to the Seventh Century AD, ed.
    J. Herrmann & E. Zürcher. Paris: UNESCO. Integrated contributions on
    science, medicine, and technology.
  - 2000\. *Science and Civilisation in China. Vol. 6, pt. 6. Medicine*.
    Edited and with an Introduction by N.S. Cambridge University Press.
  - 2002\. *The Way and the Word. Science and Medicine in Early Greece
    and China* (with Sir Geoffrey Lloyd). Yale University Press.

## 外部链接

  - [席文](http://ccat.sas.upenn.edu/~nsivin/)，宾夕法尼亚大学

[Category:美國漢學家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:美國漢學家 "wikilink")
[Category:技术史学家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:技术史学家 "wikilink")
[Category:麻省理工學院校友](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:麻省理工學院校友 "wikilink")
[Category:哈佛大學校友](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:哈佛大學校友 "wikilink")