**古隆语**是[古隆族的语言](../Page/古隆族.md "wikilink")，属于[藏缅语族](../Page/藏缅语族.md "wikilink")[达芒语支](../Page/达芒语支.md "wikilink")，有43万人使用，主要分布在[尼泊尔北部](../Page/尼泊尔.md "wikilink")。

可以分为两种语言：

  - 东古隆语，23万人使用；
  - 西古隆语，20万人使用。

## 註釋

## 參考文獻

  - J. Burton-Page. (1955). Two studies in Gurungkura: I. tone; II.
    Rhotacization and retroflexion. *Bulletin of the Society of Oriental
    and African Studies* 111-19.
  - Viktor S.Doherty. (1974). "The Organizing Principles of Gurung
    Kinship."
    [*Kailash*](http://himalaya.socanth.cam.ac.uk/collections/journals/kailash/pdf/kailash_02_04_02.pdf).
    2.4: 273-301.
  - Warren W. Glover. (1970). Gurung tone and higher levels. Occasional
    Papers of the Wolfenden society on Tibeto-Burman Linguistics III,
    Tone systems of Tibeto-Burman languages of Nepal, Pt. I, ed. by
    Austin Hale and Kenneth L. Pike, 52-73. Studies in tone and
    phonological segments. Urbana: University of Illinois.
  - Warren W. Glover. (1974). Sememic and Grammatical Structures in
    Gurung (Nepal). Publication No. 49. Norman, OK: SIL Publications.
  - Warren W. Glover and Jessie Glover. (1972). A Guide to Gurung Tone.
    Kathmandu: Tribhuvan University and Summer Institute of Linguistics.
  - Warren W. Glover and John K. Landon. (1980). "Gurung Dialects." In
    Papers in Southeast Asian Languages No. 7, edited by R.L. Trail et
    al., 9-77. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
  - Kristine A. Hildebrandt, D.N. Dhakal, Oliver Bond, Matt Vallejo and
    Andrea Fyffe. (2015). “A sociolinguistic survey of the languages of
    Manang, Nepal: Co-existence and endangerment.” *[NFDIN
    Journal,](https://web.archive.org/web/20160616212827/http://www.nfdin.gov.np/securi/)*
    14.6: 104-122.
  - Pettigrew, Judith. (1999). "Parallel Landscapes: Ritual and
    Political Values of a Shamanic Soul Journey" in Himalayan Space:
    Cultural Horizons and Practices, edited by Balthasar Bickel and
    Martin Gaenszle, 247-271. Zürich: Völkerkundsmuseum

## 外部連結

[Category:藏缅语族](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:藏缅语族 "wikilink")