**吡喹酮**（，或）為一種用於人類及動物的[驅蟲藥](../Page/驅蟲藥.md "wikilink")，專門治療[絛蟲及](../Page/絛蟲.md "wikilink")[吸蟲](../Page/吸蟲.md "wikilink")。對於[血吸蟲](../Page/血吸蟲.md "wikilink")、[中華肝吸蟲](../Page/中華肝吸蟲.md "wikilink")、特別有效，吡喹酮為[世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单上的藥物](../Page/世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单.md "wikilink")，為世界上對於基本公共衛生最重要的藥物之一。\[1\]1970年代由[拜耳公司的藥學部研發成功](../Page/拜耳.md "wikilink")。

## 醫療用途

吡喹酮可以用於治療人類、哺乳類，以及魚類的寄生蟲病。包含腸胃道或是外部的感染，以下為其適用疾病：

  - [包蟲症](../Page/棘球蚴病.md "wikilink")：為[包囊蟲幼蟲所引起的感染症](../Page/包囊蟲.md "wikilink")。
  - [豬囊尾蚴病](../Page/豬囊尾蚴病.md "wikilink")：為[豬肉絛蟲幼蟲感染腦部或肌肉所引起的疾病](../Page/豬肉絛蟲.md "wikilink")（但在[腦囊蟲病則以](../Page/腦囊蟲病.md "wikilink")[阿苯达唑效果較佳](../Page/阿苯达唑.md "wikilink")）\[2\]

<!-- end list -->

  - Feline  caused in cats by gastrointestinal infection with adult
    tapeworms of the species **; used either alone or in combination
    with

  - in cats and dogs whose gut is infected with the roundworms/nematodes
    ** or **, respectively; use is often combined with pyrantel \[3\]

  - [Schistosomiasis](../Page/血吸虫病.md "wikilink") caused by
    [trematodes](../Page/吸虫.md "wikilink") of the genus
    *[Schistosoma](../Page/血吸虫.md "wikilink")*.\[4\]As of 2005,
    praziquantel is the primary treatment for human
    [schistosomiasis](../Page/血吸虫病.md "wikilink"), for which it is
    usually effective in a single dose.\[5\]

  - brought on by the Chinese liver fluke *[Clonorchis
    sinensis](../Page/中華肝吸蟲.md "wikilink")*\[6\]

  - caused by infection with lung flukes, mostly of the species
    *[Paragonimus westermani](../Page/衛氏肺吸蟲.md "wikilink")*

  - [Fasciolopsiasis](../Page/布氏薑片蟲.md "wikilink") caused by intestinal
    fluke *[Fasciolopsis buski](../Page/布氏姜片吸虫.md "wikilink")*\[7\]

  - ** and other [Trematoda](../Page/吸虫.md "wikilink") infections of
    many fish species\[8\]

## 副作用

The majority of side effects develop due to the release of the contents
of the parasites as they are killed and the consequent host immune
reaction. The heavier the parasite burden, the heavier and more frequent
the side effects normally are.

  - Central nervous system: Frequently occurring side effects are
    [dizziness](../Page/dizziness.md "wikilink"),
    [headache](../Page/頭痛.md "wikilink"), and malaise.
    [Drowsiness](../Page/Drowsiness.md "wikilink"),
    [somnolence](../Page/somnolence.md "wikilink"),
    [fatigue](../Page/疲倦.md "wikilink"), and
    [vertigo](../Page/眩暈_\(醫學\).md "wikilink") have also been
    seen. Almost all patients with cerebral
    [cysticercosis](../Page/囊虫病.md "wikilink") experience CNS side
    effects related to the cell-death of the parasites (headache,
    worsening of pre-existing neurological problems, , , and ). These
    side effects may be life-threatening and can be reduced by
    coadministration of [corticosteroids](../Page/皮質類固醇.md "wikilink").
    It is strongly recommended that all patients with cerebral
    [cysticercosis](../Page/囊虫病.md "wikilink") are hospitalized during
    treatment.
  - GI Tract: Approximately 90% of all patients have abdominal pain or
    cramps with or without nausea and vomiting.
    [Diarrhea](../Page/腹瀉.md "wikilink") may develop and may be
    severe with colic. Sweating, fever, and sometimes bloody stools may
    occur together with diarrhea.
  - Liver: Asymptomatic and transient increases of liver enzymes
    ([AST](../Page/天冬氨酸氨基转移酶.md "wikilink") and
    [ALT](../Page/谷丙转氨酶.md "wikilink")) are noted frequently
    (up to 27%). No case of symptomatic liver damage has ever been seen
    so far.
  - Sensitivity reactions: [Urticaria](../Page/荨麻疹.md "wikilink"),
    [rash](../Page/疹.md "wikilink"),
    [pruritus](../Page/pruritus.md "wikilink") and  in white blood cell
    counts
  - Other locations/body as a whole: Lower back pain, myalgia,
    arthralgia, fever, sweating, various cardiac
    [arrhythmias](../Page/心律不整.md "wikilink"), and
    [hypotension](../Page/低血壓.md "wikilink")

## Drug interactions

The antibiotic [rifampicin](../Page/利福平.md "wikilink") decreases plasma
concentrations of praziquantel.\[9\]

[Carbamazepine](../Page/卡马西平.md "wikilink") and
[phenytoin](../Page/苯妥英.md "wikilink") are reported to reduce the
bioavailability of praziquantel.\[10\]

[Chloroquine](../Page/Chloroquine.md "wikilink") reduces the
bioavailability of praziquantel.\[11\]

The drug [cimetidine](../Page/西咪替丁.md "wikilink") heightens praziquantel
bioavailability.\[12\]\[13\]

## Mechanism of action

The mode of action is not exactly known at present, but experimental
evidence indicates praziquantel increases the permeability of the
membranes of [schistosome](../Page/血吸虫.md "wikilink") cells towards
calcium ions. The drug thereby induces contraction of the parasites,
resulting in paralysis in the contracted state. The dying parasites are
dislodged from their site of action in the host organism and may enter
systemic circulation or may be destroyed by host immune reaction
([phagocytosis](../Page/吞噬作用.md "wikilink")). Additional mechanisms
including focal disintegrations and disturbances of oviposition (laying
of eggs) are seen in other types of sensitive parasites.

Another hypothesis concerning the mechanism of action of praziquantel
has been recently reported. The drug seems to interfere with
[adenosine](../Page/腺苷.md "wikilink") uptake in cultured worms. This
effect may have therapeutical relevance given that the schistosome, as
the  and the ** (other praziquantel-sensitive parasites), is unable to
synthesize [purines](../Page/嘌呤.md "wikilink") such as adenosine *de
novo*.

Bayer's Animal Health Division website states, "Praziquantel is active
against cestodes (tapeworms). Praziquantel is absorbed, metabolized in
the liver, and excreted in the bile. Upon entering the digestive tract
from the bile, cestocidal activity is exhibited. Following exposure to
praziquantel, the tapeworm loses its ability to resist digestion by the
mammalian host. Because of this, whole tapeworms, including the
[scolices](../Page/絛蟲綱.md "wikilink") (plural of "scolex"), are very
rarely passed after administration of praziquantel. In many instances,
only disintegrated and partially digested pieces of tapeworms will be
seen in the stool. The majority of tapeworms are digested and are not
found in the feces."\[14\]

Praziquantel is administered as a racemate, but only the
(*R*)-enantiomer is biologically active; the enantiomers may be
separated using a resolution of an amine obtained from
praziquantel.\[15\]

## Pharmacokinetics

Praziquantel is well absorbed (about 80%) from the [gastrointestinal
tract](../Page/gastrointestinal_tract.md "wikilink"). However, due to
extensive [first-pass metabolism](../Page/首过效应.md "wikilink"), only a
relatively small amount enters systemic circulation. Praziquantel has a
[serum](../Page/血清.md "wikilink") [half-life](../Page/半衰期.md "wikilink")
of 0.8 to 1.5 hours in adults with normal renal and liver function.
[Metabolites](../Page/代謝產物.md "wikilink") have a half-life of 4 to 5
hours. In patients with significantly impaired liver function (Child
Pugh classes B ll///d C), the serum half-life is increased to 3 to 8
hours. Praziquantel and its metabolites are mainly excreted renally;
within 24 hours after a single oral dose, 70 to 80% is found in urine,
but less than 0.1% as the unchanged drug. Praziquantel is metabolized
through the [cytochrome P450](../Page/细胞色素P450.md "wikilink") pathway
via [CYP3A4](../Page/CYP3A4.md "wikilink"). Agents that  CYP3A4 such as
[phenytoin](../Page/苯妥英.md "wikilink"),
[rifampin](../Page/利福平.md "wikilink"), and
[azole](../Page/抗真菌药.md "wikilink") antifungals will affect the
metabolism of praziquantel.

Praziquantel has a particularly dramatic effect on patients with
schistosomiasis. Studies of those treated have shown that within six
months of receiving a dose of praziquantel, up to 90% of the damage done
to internal organs due to schistosomiasis infection can be
reversed.\[16\]

## History

Praziquantel was developed in the laboratories for parasitological
research of [Bayer AG](../Page/拜耳.md "wikilink") and [Merck
KGaA](../Page/默克集團.md "wikilink") in Germany (Elberfeld and Darmstadt)
in the mid 1970s.

## 商品名

  - Biltricide (Bayer) 600 mg Tablets：人類使用
  - Cesol (Merck) Tablets
  - Cestoved (Vedco) ：藥片或注射劑，獸醫使用
  - Cysticide (Merck) Tablets
  - Distocide (Shin Poong Pharm. Co. Ltd) 600mg tablet：人類使用
  - Distoside (Chandra Bhagat Pharma Pvt Ltd) 600mg tablet：人類使用
  - Droncit (Bayer) ：獸醫使用
  - Drontal (combination with ) (Bayer)：獸醫使用
  - D-Worm (Farnum) for veterinary use; note that D-Worm also makes
    roundworm medicine containing piperidine which is not effective
    against tapeworms.
  - Fish Tapes (Thomas Labs) for aquarium use
  - Kaicide (Taiwan)
  - Milbemax (combination with )
    ([Novartis](../Page/诺华公司.md "wikilink"))：獸醫使用
  - Popantel (Jurox)
  - PraziPro (Hikari) ：水生動物飼養使用
  - Praz-Tastic (NFP/National Fish Pharmaceuticals) ：水生動物飼養使用
  - Pure Prazi (COTS Koi/Children of the Sun Koi)：水生動物飼養使用
  - PraziPure (J.K.O., Inc. d/b/a Kodama Koi Farm & Kodama Koi Garden;
    licensed by COTS Koi)：水生動物飼養使用
  - Profender (combination with ) (Bayer) ：獸醫使用
  - Tape Worm Tabs (Trade Winds) ：獸醫使用
  - Zentozide (Berich (Thailand) Co)

## 核准狀況

吡喹酮名列[世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单之中](../Page/世界卫生组织基本药物标准清单.md "wikilink"),
是世界上对于基本公共卫生最重要的药物之一。\[17\]

在英国，吡喹酮并未获准在人体上使用。但在必要时可以根据在患者实名的情况下进口。\[18\]在英国吡喹酮可以作为兽用驱虫药销售。

在美国，吡喹酮被FDA批准用于血吸虫病及肝吸虫病的治疗，尽管它对其他种类的感染也有效。\[19\]

## 參考文獻

{{-}}

[Category:驅蟲藥](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:驅蟲藥 "wikilink")
[Category:世界衛生組織基本藥物](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:世界衛生組織基本藥物 "wikilink")
[Category:胺類](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:胺類 "wikilink")
[Category:內醯胺類](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:內醯胺類 "wikilink")

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14. <http://bayer.naccvp.com/view_label.php>

15.

16.
17.
18.

19.