> 本文内容由[咏声动漫](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/咏声动漫)转换而来。


**Guang Dong Winsing Company Limited** was established by Zhibin Gu. Based on original 3D animation content production, Winsing Animation operates a business chain including content production and distribution, merchandising and licensing, stageshows, theme park as well as any future possibilities. With over 30 years of experience in cultural industry, Winsing Animation is committed its deligation to provide high quality entertaining products and services around the world. Nowadays, the contents of Winsing Animation are aired on more than 150 TV channels across the world.\[1\]

## Animation Contents

### GG Bond Series

#### TV Series

GG Bond Season 1: Magic Jurassic (2006) GG Bond Season 2: Martial Arts 2008 (2007) GG Bond Season 3: Adventure in the Future (2008) GG Bond Season 4: The Transform Angel (2009) GG Bond Season 5: Fairy Tales of the Brick Kingdom (2010) GG Bond Season 6: Rescue Crew Comes (2012) GG Bond Season 7: Monster Heroes (2013) GG Bond Season 8: Kung Fu Team (2014) GG Bond Season 9: Shapeshifting Union (2015) GG Bond Season 10: The Legend of Warriors (2015) GG Bond Season 11: Light Guardians (2016) GG Bond Season 12: Dream Guardians (2016) GG Bond Season 13: Agent G (2017) GG Bond Season 14: Dodgeball Legend (2018) GG Bond Season 15: Racing (2019)

#### Film Series

GG Bond-Hatching (2012) GG Bond and the Beanstalk (2014) GG Bond: Ultimate Battle (2015) GG Bond: Guarding (2017) GG Bond: Loli Pop in Fantasy (2019)}

### Crazy Candies

Crazy Candies 1 (2013) Crazy Candies 2 (2015) Crazy Candies 3 (2017) Crazy Candies 4 (2017) Crazy Candies 5 (2018) Crazy Candies 6 (2019)

### Doby & Disy

#### TV Series

Doby & Disy’s Exploring Journey (2011) Doby & Disy: Detective Kubi (2012) Learning Chinese with Doby & Disy (2013) Doby & Disy: Sing with Us 1 (2016) Doby & Disy: Sing with Us 2 (2016) Doby & Disy: Hello Dream (2018)

#### Film Series

Doby & Disy’s Dreamy Town (2018)

## GOGO BUS

*GOGO BUS *(simplified Chinese: 百变校巴; traditional Chinese: 百變校巴) is a 3D Chinese animated TV series created by Zhibin Gu a.k.a. Ben Gu, a member of the China Animation Association, and CEO of Guang Dong Winsing Company Limited. At present, GOGO BUS has two series: SEL Series and STEAM Series. GOGO BUS SEL Series. \[2\]

### GG Bond Series

#### Background

Combining the knowledge of daily cognition and safety cognition in daily life, Winsing Animation creates “GOGO BUS” for the children aged 2 to 5 years old. This TV series integrates Social Emotional Learning(SEL) to help children solve their troubles. It guides children to understand themselves and open their mind. Moreover, it leads the children to explore a meaningful life, help them focus on the task at hand and learn to manage the emotions that are bothering them. It helps to cultivate children’s empathy as well as develop their caring and interpersonal skills in order to build effective relationships. It also helps the children learn about the wider world and explore the wonders of nature with other kids.

#### Characters

Gordon: He is an Artificial Intelligence School Bus, who can transform into Fireman, Ambulance, Police, Air craft and Salvage, in order to protect the kids of the Sunshine Forest Kindergarten.

Miss Sandy: She is the teacher of the Sunshine Forest Kindergarten. She always tells Gordon: “We tend to underestimate the children. No matter what happen, they will always come up with a lot of solutions.”

Doby: When he is thinking of the problems, he will imitate his father's way of arranging the bow tie. He loves cars and what he loves most is Gordon.

Disy: She is more mature than the peers. When her brother Doby acts on impulse, she will remind him. She is fond of small animals.

Pandy: Doby's classmate. He always speaks with a lisp. He loves to play with Doby.

Bobby: Doby's classmate. He loves to play pranks. And he makes up a team with Kyle, named “Team Dino”.

Kyle: Doby's classmate. He loves to play pranks. He always follows Bobby, just like a hanger-on.

Cary: Doby's classmate. She wears glasses. Because she has many extracurricular classes, she always looks tired.

Abbu: He wants to get noticed and break through himself. And he always tries something risky to prove himself.

Cici: Disy's classmate. She doesn't like to do things by herself and loves to ask her brother Kyle for help.

### GOGO BUS & Team Steam

#### Background

Team S.T.E.A.M. is an emergency response force on Tomorrow Island. In spite of their youth, they hold the same status as the Police and The Fire Department. Thus when things go wrong in the community, our team may get a call from the authorities asking for their help. The team is also always monitoring the island, and often detects a problem before being called. And they just as likely may be out in the field (either having a fun day out or maybe on patrol).

Character: Sy is a Science Expert. He knows a little about a lot of things, making him more of a jack-of-all-trades master-of-none. And he always carries a tablet, at all times researching because of his hunger for knowledge.

Tess is an expert at all things computer-related, always tapping away at her computer keyboard. She is not very open-minded,but is not outright stubborn. And she is always thrilled upon learning new things.

Eddie is a Resident Engineer. He can repair anything, and loves the challenge. He is the funniest of our characters. And he is always the most optimistic when facing even the most puzzling or challenging situation.

ALEJANDRO is an Artist. His expertise lies in his artistic skills, and his head tends to be in the clouds. He’s kind of spacey, and sometimes the things he says make her sound ditzy or out-of-touch.

Manisha is a Resident Mathlete. Her magic lies in her understanding of numbers, and she can formulate complex equations in her head. Although her specialty is math, she is also quite passionate about ASTRONOMY.

JINX is an Athlete. She provides a physical dimension to our otherwise cerebral group. She is always eager to leap into action. Which the others often have to stop her from doing - because she has apparently never learned to “Look Before You Leap”. </ref>

## 参阅

  - **咏声文化相关**
      - 旗下品牌\> [猪猪侠](../Page/猪猪侠.md "wikilink") {{·}} [逗逗迪迪](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/逗逗迪迪 "wikilink") {{·}} [金碟豹](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/金碟豹 "wikilink")
      - 签约艺人\> [卓依婷](../Page/卓依婷.md "wikilink") {{·}} [孟庭苇](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/孟庭苇 "wikilink") {{·}} [四千金](../Page/四千金_\(歌唱組合\).md "wikilink") {{·}} [王雪晶](../Page/王雪晶.md "wikilink") {{·}} 主高丽

<!-- end list -->

  - **中国动漫相关**
      - 中国动画\> [整体概述](../Page/中国动画.md "wikilink") {{·}} [发展历程](../Page/中国动画史.md "wikilink") {{·}} [作品列表](../Page/中國動畫列表.md "wikilink") {{·}} [制作机构](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中國動畫工作室 "wikilink") {{·}} [动画师](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中国动画师 "wikilink") {{·}} [导演](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:中国动画电影导演 "wikilink")
      - 广东漫协\> [咏声文化](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/咏声文化 "wikilink") {{·}} [奥飞娱乐](../Page/奥飞娱乐.md "wikilink") {{·}} [蓝弧文化](../Page/蓝弧文化.md "wikilink") {{·}} [腾讯动漫](../Page/腾讯动漫.md "wikilink") {{·}} [华强动漫](../Page/华强集团.md "wikilink") {{·}} [网易游戏](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/网易游戏 "wikilink") {{·}} [淘米网络](../Page/上海淘米.md "wikilink") {{·}} [炫动卡通](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/炫动卡通 "wikilink") {{·}} [恒大动漫](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/恆大集團 "wikilink")

## 参考资料

[分类:新三板上市公司](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/分类:新三板上市公司 "wikilink")

1.
2.