[DualsiteD.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:DualsiteD.jpg "fig:DualsiteD.jpg")

，為一款模擬飛行類的PC電腦遊戲，由日本遊戲製造商TechnoBrain（）開發。第一代的中文版由[華義國際代理發行](../Page/華義國際.md "wikilink")，第二代則為[美商藝電代理發行](../Page/美商藝電.md "wikilink")。

在遊戲中，玩家成為一名[航空管制員](../Page/航空管制員.md "wikilink")，須管理機場中飛機降落與離陸業務。玩家需要安排飛機的飛行間隔、地面滑行甚至機場內的特殊車輛走動。

  - 第一代日文版於1998年7月發行，中文版於1999年7月15日。
  - 第二代日文版於2001年發行，中文版於2005年。
  - 第三代日文版於2008年2月25日發行。
  - 第四代日文版於2015年9月17日發行。

另有在攜帶型遊樂器上推出移植版本

  - GBA平台於2005年發售一代作品的簡化版
  - DS平台於2008年發售一代作品的簡化版
  - PSP平台於2010年發售二代作品的分机场版本，有成田、那霸、新千岁、羽田、关西共五款遊戲。
  - 3DS平台於2012年發售三代作品的分机场版本，有成田、那霸、新千岁、羽田、关西、檀香山，另推出成田、羽田、关西的ALL
    STARS版，共九款遊戲。

在第四代空管游戲中，福岡篇和東京羽田國際機場2在飛機引擎聲音起飛與降落作出很大的改善，併且與時並進加入廉航品牌飛機，如日本廉航starflyer和
air peach(樂桃航空)等,讓此游戲更具真實感;另外在東京羽田國際機場2加入A321-200和A321
neo機型。日本以外地區可以在amazon.co.jp訂講此游戲(空管4)，在Windows
10用 Locale emulator運行此游戲，運行此游戲前在Locale
emulator空格欄輸入TITLE\\ATC4TITLE.axa就不會形成亂碼進行游戲。

## 第一代作品列表

The game features 6 airports. Players direct the air traffic for arrival
and departures. There is only one channel of communication.

  - **Air Traffic Controller**
      - Airports Featured: [Miyazaki
        Airport](../Page/Miyazaki_Airport.md "wikilink"),
        [Hiroshima-Nishi
        Airport](../Page/Hiroshima-Nishi_Airport.md "wikilink"),
        [Matsuyama Airport](../Page/Matsuyama_Airport.md "wikilink"),
        [Osaka International
        Airport](../Page/Osaka_International_Airport.md "wikilink"),
        [Nagoya Airfield](../Page/Nagoya_Airfield.md "wikilink") and
        [Tokyo International
        Airport](../Page/Haneda_Airport.md "wikilink").
  - **Air Traffic Controller Power Up Kit 1**
      - Airports: [Saga Airport](../Page/Saga_Airport.md "wikilink"),
        [Fukuoka Airport](../Page/Fukuoka_Airport.md "wikilink") and
        [Komatsu Airport](../Page/Komatsu_Airport.md "wikilink").
  - **Air Traffic Controller Power Up Kit 1 Value Pack**
      - Airports: ATC + Power Kit 1
  - **Air Traffic Controller Power Up Kit 2**
      - Airports: [Kansai International
        Airport](../Page/Kansai_International_Airport.md "wikilink"),
        [Narita International
        Airport](../Page/Narita_International_Airport.md "wikilink") and
        [New Chitose
        Airport](../Page/New_Chitose_Airport.md "wikilink").
  - **Air Traffic Controller Power Up Kit 2 Value Pack**
      - Airports: ATC + Power Kit 2
  - **Air Traffic Controller Power Up Kit 3**
      - Airports: none.
  - **Air Traffic Controller Complete**
      - Airports: ATC + Power Kit 1 + Power Kit 2

## 第二代作品列表

*Air Traffic Controller 2* made many improvements. The game is now in
3D, more airport gates, and increased to five channels of communication:
Approach, Tower, Ground, Delivery, and Departure. New features included
ground movements (e.g. towing planes to gates), giving correct [Standard
Instrument
Departure](../Page/Standard_Instrument_Departure.md "wikilink"), use of
[radar vectors](../Page/radar_vector.md "wikilink"), and changing
channel frequency. The choice of [Standard Terminal Arrival
Route](../Page/Standard_Terminal_Arrival_Route.md "wikilink") distance
eliminates the speed instruction in previous version.

In the game, there are a few conditions that will cause game over. These
include [head-on](../Page/Head-on_Collision.md "wikilink"), [near
miss](../Page/Near_miss_\(safety\).md "wikilink"), pilots' pressure bar
reaching 100%, or failed to accumulate enough points to pass that
particular stage. The points are awarded according to how fast to reply
a response. A slow or non-response will raise the pressure bar. Other
things that increase pressure bar include instructing the plane to take
off in [tailwind](../Page/tailwind.md "wikilink") or tower failing to
give the plane permission to land or go-around. Additional points are
awarded at the end of the stage, but before deciding whether there's
enough points to pass, for minimal % in pressure bar. More bonus points
are awarded if the pressure bar is at 0%.

### Tokyo: BigWing A (Alpha)

  - Airport: [Tokyo International
    Airport](../Page/Haneda_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Release date: 2001
  - Airlines: [Japan Airlines](../Page/Japan_Airlines.md "wikilink"),
    [All Nippon Airways](../Page/All_Nippon_Airways.md "wikilink"),
    [Skymark Airlines](../Page/Skymark_Airlines.md "wikilink"),
    [Hokkaido International
    Airlines](../Page/Hokkaido_International_Airlines.md "wikilink"),
    [Japan Air System](../Page/Japan_Air_System.md "wikilink") (Before
    merger with Japan Airlines), [Japan Coast
    Guard](../Page/Japan_Coast_Guard.md "wikilink"), [China
    Airlines](../Page/China_Airlines.md "wikilink") and [EVA
    Air](../Page/EVA_Air.md "wikilink").

There is also an airline company named after the developer of the game
[TechnoBrain](../Page/TechnoBrain.md "wikilink"), **TechnoBrain
Airlines** (ICAO: TBA). Whenever TechnoBrain Airlines plane appears,
special events are triggered.

### Tokyo: BigWing B (Bravo)

  - Airport: [Tokyo International
    Airport](../Page/Haneda_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Release date: 2001

Largely the same as **Tokyo: BigWing A**, but with a stage set in the
evening.

### Kagoshima Island Control

  - Airport: [Kagoshima
    Airport](../Page/Kagoshima_Airport.md "wikilink"), [New Tanegashima
    Airport](../Page/New_Tanegashima_Airport.md "wikilink"), [Yakushima
    Airport](../Page/Yakushima_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Airlines: Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways,
    [JALways](../Page/JALways.md "wikilink"), Japan Air System,
    [J-Air](../Page/J-Air.md "wikilink"), [Oriental Air
    Bridge](../Page/Oriental_Air_Bridge.md "wikilink") and [Polar Air
    Cargo](../Page/Polar_Air_Cargo.md "wikilink")
  - Release date: 2002
  - Special feature: Radio control, For communications with
    **Tanegashima Airport** and **Yakushima Airport**.
  - Special event: During Stage 2-3, if all aircraft land before 10:15,
    a [Rocket](../Page/Rocket.md "wikilink") will launch from
    [Tanegashima Space
    Center](../Page/Tanegashima_Space_Center.md "wikilink").

**TechnoBrain** released an updated version in 2005. Changes include the
merger between Japan Airlines and Japan Air System, as well as other
features.

### Komatsu Base Aviation Festival

  - Airport: [Komatsu Airport](../Page/Komatsu_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Airlines: Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways, [Air
    Nippon](../Page/Air_Nippon.md "wikilink"), Japan Air System and
    [Japan Air Self-Defense
    Force](../Page/Japan_Air_Self-Defense_Force.md "wikilink").
  - Release date: 2002
  - Special feature: No Delivery Control, jobs taken over by Ground
    Control.
  - Special event: During Stage 1-3 and 2-1, there will be an [air
    show](../Page/air_show.md "wikilink"). Stage 2-2, It has been
    replaced by a Q\&A, player must answer questions correctly to
    complete the stage.

### Narita: Gate of Japan

  - Airport: [Narita International
    Airport](../Page/Narita_International_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Release date: 2002

### Tokyo: BigWing Complete

  - Airport: Tokyo International Airport
  - Special feature: [Airbus
    Beluga](../Page/Airbus_Beluga.md "wikilink") makes an appearance as
    the last plane to approach, land, and park in the airport at the
    last stage.

### Nagoya: Jumble Airport

  - Airport: [Nagoya Airfield](../Page/Nagoya_Airfield.md "wikilink")
  - Airlines: All Nippon Airways, [Nakanihon Air
    Service](../Page/Nakanihon_Air_Service.md "wikilink"), [Japan Air
    System](../Page/Japan_Air_System.md "wikilink") (later merged with
    [Japan Airlines](../Page/Japan_Airlines.md "wikilink")), [China
    Eastern Airlines](../Page/China_Eastern_Airlines.md "wikilink"),
    [J-Air](../Page/J-Air.md "wikilink") (airline subsidiary of Japan
    Airlines), [Japan Air Self-Defense
    Force](../Page/Japan_Air_Self-Defense_Force.md "wikilink"),
    [Northwest Airlines](../Page/Northwest_Airlines.md "wikilink"),
    [Thai Airways
    International](../Page/Thai_Airways_International.md "wikilink"),
    and [Varig](../Page/Varig.md "wikilink")
  - Release date: 2003

### Narita: Star Light Airways

  - Airport: Narita International Airport
  - Special feature: At stage 4-1, snowing occurs. At stage 4-3,
    [Concorde](../Page/Concorde.md "wikilink") makes a special
    appearance at the end.

### Okinawa: A Wake on the Southward Raise

  - Airport: [Naha Airport](../Page/Naha_Airport.md "wikilink"), [Kadena
    Air Base](../Page/Kadena_Air_Base.md "wikilink")
  - Special feature: "Okinawa Approach Control(Kadena rapcon)".
    [SR-71](../Page/Lockheed_SR-71_Blackbird.md "wikilink") makes an
    appearance as the last plane to approach, land, and park in Kadena
    Air Base at the last stage.

### Sendai: First Flight, First Control

  - Airport: [Sendai Airport](../Page/Sendai_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Special feature: Flight training in Civil Aviation College. No
    delivery channel. In stage 2-1, all runways are closed in the
    beginning due to low visibility by the fog.

### Chitose: SnowScape

  - Airport: [New Chitose
    Airport](../Page/New_Chitose_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Special feature: during stage 2-2 and 2-3, snowstorm forces the
    runways to be closed.

### Kansai: Cross Over Area

  - Airport: [Kansai International
    Airport](../Page/Kansai_International_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Special feature: Taxiway will be closed in stage 2-2 due to an
    object fallen off a plane. The runway lights malfunctioned in stage
    2-3, resulting in closure of the runway.

### Fukuoka: Oriental Wings

  - Airport: [Fukuoka Airport](../Page/Fukuoka_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Special feature: stage 2-1 to 2-3, circling approach (not used now)
    to runway 34. Taxiway will be closed in stage 1-3 due to breakdown
    of nose gear.

### Tokyo: BigWing Dual Site

  - Airport: Tokyo International Airport
  - Special Feature: In stage 2-2 and 2-3, China's and Russia's
    presidential plane plus [Air Force
    One](../Page/Air_Force_One.md "wikilink") makes an appearance.

### Osaka: InterCity Airport

  - Airport: Osaka International Airport
  - Special feature: Contains 2 mini-games within the game - directing
    the pilot to a gate parking and controlling the ground vehicle to
    move planes around. This is a first in the video game.

### Narita: Complete

  - Airport: Narita International Airport
  - This series combined "Narita: Gate of Japan" and "Narita: Star Light
    Airways" onto the same disc, with minor content changes.

### Centrair International Airport

  - Airport: [Chūbu Centrair International
    Airport](../Page/Chūbu_Centrair_International_Airport.md "wikilink")
  - Special feature: Stage 2-3 features [Airbus
    A380](../Page/Airbus_A380.md "wikilink"). Stage 2-2 and 2-3 feature
    [Boeing
    747LCF](../Page/Boeing_747_Large_Cargo_Freighter.md "wikilink").

### Kansai: Brightly Path

  - Airport: Kansai International Airport
  - Special feature: An additional 4000m runway is opened for use. An
    [airship](../Page/airship.md "wikilink") can be seen in stage 2-3.

## 第三代作品列表

This sequel provides more camera angles with higher flexibility. The
aircraft are now to scale with real aircraft. Arrivals and departures
are now combined into a single box with strips outlining details of each
flight. The strips can be ordered according to user preferences. Even
more gates are added in this version. Planes taxiing can now choose any
taxiway, instead of limited by up to 4 routes in previous version. Rules
are identical to previous version. It also features first non-Japan
airport, [Kai Tak Airport](../Page/Kai_Tak_Airport.md "wikilink") in
Hong Kong. Additionally, a fictional airline called "TechnoBrain
Airlines" (based on the company's name, abbreviated TBA) features here
as it did in ATC2, presenting problems that the player has to solve or
work around. TBA does not make any appearance in Kai Tak. Later, it
featured the second non-Japan airport, [Honolulu International
Airport](../Page/Honolulu_International_Airport.md "wikilink").

  - [中部国際空港セントレア](../Page/中部國際空港.md "wikilink")
  - [成田Night](../Page/成田機場.md "wikilink") wings
  - [成田World](../Page/成田機場.md "wikilink") wings
  - [百里基地航空祭](../Page/百里基地.md "wikilink")
  - [鹿兒島アイランドライン](../Page/鹿兒島機場.md "wikilink")
  - [東京Dream](../Page/羽田空港_\(大田區\).md "wikilink") Gateway
  - [東京Bigwing](../Page/東京國際機場.md "wikilink")
  - [關空Crossover](../Page/關西國際機場.md "wikilink")
  - [新千歲Snowing](../Page/新千歲機場.md "wikilink") Day
  - [仙台エアマンシップ](../Page/仙台機場.md "wikilink")
  - [香港啟德機場](../Page/香港啟德機場.md "wikilink")
  - [大阪Parallelcontact](../Page/伊丹機場.md "wikilink")
  - [沖繩Blue](../Page/那霸機場.md "wikilink") Corridor
  - ハワイ[檀香山國際機場国際空港](../Page/檀香山國際機場.md "wikilink")

## 第四代作品列表

Air Traffic Controller 4 is an air traffic control simulation game
developed by TechnoBrain as a successor to the Air Traffic Controller 3.
The game is compatible with Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8.1 and tested
on Windows 10. The first installment, ATC4 - Tokyo Haneda was originally
released on July 15, 2015, but the developers delayed the release of the
game to August 28, 2015. TechnoBrain delayed again to September 17, 2015
for testing the Windows 10 compatibility. Airport and airplanes are more
realistically scaled. In-game time are now progressing at the same speed
as real time. There are now even more gates than the previous games.
There are also stages based on the actual schedule of the airports of
which the players can select the time frame and channels they wish to
take charge. Players can't choose runway for the plane to takeoff,
landing or even go-around except the runway section (e.g. 16L, 16R.
etc.) are opened (only for ATC4 - Tokyo Haneda). Unlike the previous
games, if the planes are to line up to each other, the game will not
result in a head-on game over (only in Normal Mode) unless the planes
are heading to each other. The player can select planes at the top of it
or at the flight control selection bar (bottom-right during gameplay).
Technoair also appears here like in ATC3, occasionally presenting
problems for players to solve or work around (for the main stages of the
game) as well as replacing airlines not included in game. Similar to
previous games, the game consists of two modes (Normal Mode and Game
Mode). Game Mode is more challenging because player needs to pay
attention to the planes on the ground to prevent head-on game over. The
game consists of five installments as of April 18, 2018.

  - 東京羽田機場
  - 大阪關西國際機場
  - 福岡機場
  - 東京羽田機場2(2018年2月22日發售)
  - 名古屋中部國際機場(2018年6月28日發售)

\=== Extend Scenario 1 ===

  - Airport: [Tokyo International
    Airport](../Page/Haneda_Airport.md "wikilink") (RJTT2 - Haneda 2)
  - Airlines: JAL Group, [All Nippon
    Airways](../Page/All_Nippon_Airways.md "wikilink"), [Air
    Do](../Page/Air_Do.md "wikilink"), [Skymark
    Airlines](../Page/Skymark_Airlines.md "wikilink"), [StarFlyer
    Airlines](../Page/StarFlyer_Airlines.md "wikilink"), [Solaseed
    Air](../Page/Solaseed_Air.md "wikilink"), [Peach
    Aviation](../Page/Peach_Aviation.md "wikilink"), [Asiana
    Airlines](../Page/Asiana_Airlines.md "wikilink"), [Garuda
    Indonesia](../Page/Garuda_Indonesia.md "wikilink"), [Singapore
    Airlines](../Page/Singapore_Airlines.md "wikilink"), [Thai Airways
    International](../Page/Thai_Airways_International.md "wikilink"),
    [China Airlines](../Page/China_Airlines.md "wikilink"), [China
    Southern Airlines](../Page/China_Southern_Airlines.md "wikilink"),
    [Philippine Airlines](../Page/Philippine_Airlines.md "wikilink")
  - Release Date: September 26, 2018
  - This package consists of 3 stages. Dedicated to experts, all stages
    are very difficult and are described as "puzzle stages". Stage 1
    focuses on Terminal 1 and stage 2 shifts the focus to terminal 2
    while stage 3 is centered around the International Terminal.
  - The new approach routes for Runway 16L and 16R, proposed to
    accommodate more flights ahead of the [2020 Summer
    Olympics](../Page/2020_Summer_Olympics.md "wikilink"), are simulated
    in stage 1 by two Technoair checker planes.

## 外部連結

  - [Majesco Entertainment Ships Air Traffic Chaos for Nintendo
    DS(TM)](https://web.archive.org/web/20140222204634/http://ir.majescoentertainment.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=333220)
  - [Air Traffic Chaos
    Review](http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/air-traffic-chaos-review)
  - [Air Traffic Chaos
    Review](http://www.ign.com/articles/2008/09/23/air-traffic-chaos-review)
  - [Air Traffic Chaos
    Hands-on](http://www.ign.com/articles/2008/05/19/air-traffic-chaos-hands-on)
  - [TechnoBrain，日文版官方網站](http://www.technobrain.com/)
  - [美商藝電，中文版官方網站](https://web.archive.org/web/20050215215620/http://atc2.ea.com.tw/index.asp)

[Category:飞行模拟游戏](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:飞行模拟游戏 "wikilink")