**工業控制系統**（Industrial control system）簡稱**ICS**，是用在[过程控制](../Page/过程控制.md "wikilink")上的多種[控制系統](../Page/控制系統.md "wikilink")以及相關的總稱。

工業控制系統可以小到由幾個模組型的控制器組成，也可以是大型互聯及互相影響的分散式控制系統，其中有上千個現場的接線。所有的系統都會透過遠端的[感測器量測](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/感測器 "wikilink")[程序變數](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/程序變數 "wikilink")（PV），並且接收量測到的資料，將量測資料和理想的[目標值](../Page/目標值.md "wikilink")（SP）比較，產生透過終端控制元件（FCE）控制流程的命令，終端控制元件可能是等設備。

較大型的系統一般會用[数据采集与监控系统](../Page/数据采集与监控系统.md "wikilink")（SCADA）來實現，或是由（DCS）及[可编程逻辑控制器](../Page/可编程逻辑控制器.md "wikilink")（PLC）來實現，不過SCADA及PLC的系統一般可以縮小規模，小到只由幾個控制迴路組成的小型系統\[1\]。這類系統廣泛應用在產業中，例如化工產業、造紙業、發電廠、石油天然氣提煉，以及電信業。

## 獨立的控制器

[Industrial_PID_controllers_-_front_display.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Industrial_PID_controllers_-_front_display.jpg "fig:Industrial_PID_controllers_-_front_display.jpg") [Smart_current_loop_positioner.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Smart_current_loop_positioner.png "fig:Smart_current_loop_positioner.png")

The simplest control systems are based around small discrete controllers with a single [控制迴路](../Page/控制迴路.md "wikilink") each. These are usually panel mounted which allows direct viewing of the front panel and provides means of manual intervention by the operator, either to manually control the process or to change control setpoints. Originally these would be pneumatic controllers, a few of which are still in use, but nearly all are now electronic.

Quite complex systems can be created with networks of these controllers communicating using industry standard protocols. Networking allow the use of local or remote SCADA operator interfaces, and enables the cascading and interlocking of controllers. However, as the number of control loops increase for a system design there is a point where the use of a [可编程逻辑控制器](../Page/可编程逻辑控制器.md "wikilink") (PLC) or  (DCS) is more manageable or cost-effective.

## 分散式控制系統

[Functional_levels_of_a_Distributed_Control_System.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Functional_levels_of_a_Distributed_Control_System.svg "fig:Functional_levels_of_a_Distributed_Control_System.svg")  A distributed control system (DCS) is a digital processor control system for a process or plant, wherein controller functions and field connection modules are distributed throughout the system. As the number of control loops grows, DCS becomes more cost effective than discrete controllers. Additionally a DCS provides supervisory viewing and management over large industrial processes. In a DCS, a hierarchy of controllers is connected by s, allowing centralised control rooms and local on-plant monitoring and control.

A DCS enables easy configuration of plant controls such as cascaded loops and interlocks, and easy interfacing with other computer systems such as [生产管理](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/生产管理 "wikilink"). It also enables more sophisticated alarm handling, introduces automatic event logging, removes the need for physical records such as chart recorders and allows the control equipment to be networked and thereby located locally to equipment being controlled to reduce cabling.

A DCS typically uses custom-designed processors as controllers, and uses either proprietary interconnections or standard protocols for communication. Input and output modules form the peripheral components of the system.

The processors receive information from input modules, process the information and decide control actions to be performed by the output modules. The input modules receive information from sensing instruments in the process (or field) and the output modules transmit instructions to the final control elements, such as .

The field inputs and outputs can either be continuously changing [模擬信號](../Page/模擬信號.md "wikilink")s e.g.  or 2 state signals that switch either *on* or *off*, such as relay contacts or a semiconductor switch.

Distributed control systems can normally also support , [Profibus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Profibus "wikilink"), , [Modbus](../Page/Modbus.md "wikilink") and other digital communication buses that carry not only input and output signals but also advanced messages such as error diagnostics and status signals.

## SCADA系統

Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) is a [控制系統](../Page/控制系統.md "wikilink") architecture that uses computers, networked data communications and [图形用户界面](../Page/图形用户界面.md "wikilink")s for high-level process supervisory management. The operator interfaces which enable monitoring and the issuing of process commands, such as controller set point changes, are handled through the SCADA supervisory computer system. However, the real-time control logic or controller calculations are performed by networked modules which connect to other peripheral devices such as [可编程逻辑控制器](../Page/可编程逻辑控制器.md "wikilink")s and discrete [PID控制器](../Page/PID控制器.md "wikilink")s which interface to the process plant or machinery.

The SCADA concept was developed as a universal means of remote access to a variety of local control modules, which could be from different manufacturers allowing access through [自動化通訊協定列表](../Page/自動化通訊協定列表.md "wikilink"). In practice, large SCADA systems have grown to become very similar to s in function, but using multiple means of interfacing with the plant. They can control large-scale processes that can include multiple sites, and work over large distances.\[2\] This is a commonly-used architecture industrial control systems, however there are concerns about SCADA systems being vulnerable to [網絡戰](../Page/網絡戰.md "wikilink") or  attacks.\[3\]

The SCADA software operates on a supervisory level as control actions are performed automatically by [远程终端装置](../Page/远程终端装置.md "wikilink") or PLCs. SCADA control functions are usually restricted to basic overriding or supervisory level intervention. A feedback control loop is directly controlled by the RTU or PLC, but the SCADA software monitors the overall performance of the loop. For example, a PLC may control the flow of cooling water through part of an industrial process to a set point level, but the SCADA system software will allow operators to change the set points for the flow. The SCADA also enables alarm conditions, such as loss of flow or high temperature, to be displayed and recorded.

## 可编程逻辑控制器

[Siemens_Simatic_S7-416-3.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Siemens_Simatic_S7-416-3.jpg "fig:Siemens_Simatic_S7-416-3.jpg") PLCs can range from small modular devices with tens of inputs and outputs (I/O) in a housing integral with the processor, to large rack-mounted modular devices with a count of thousands of I/O, and which are often networked to other PLC and SCADA systems. They can be designed for multiple arrangements of digital and analog inputs and outputs, extended temperature ranges, immunity to [雜訊](../Page/雜訊.md "wikilink"), and resistance to vibration and impact. Programs to control machine operation are typically stored in battery-backed-up or [非揮發性記憶體](../Page/非揮發性記憶體.md "wikilink").

## 歷史

[Kontrollrom_Tyssedal.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Kontrollrom_Tyssedal.jpg "fig:Kontrollrom_Tyssedal.jpg") [Leitstand_2.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Leitstand_2.jpg "fig:Leitstand_2.jpg")

[过程控制](../Page/过程控制.md "wikilink") of large industrial plants has evolved through many stages. Initially, control was from panels local to the process plant. However this required personnel to attend to these dispersed panels, and there was no overall view of the process. The next logical development was the transmission of all plant measurements to a permanently-manned central control room. Often the controllers were behind the control room panels, and all automatic and manual control outputs were individually transmitted back to plant in the form of pneumatic or electrical signals. Effectively this was the centralisation of all the localised panels, with the advantages of reduced manpower requirements and consolidated overview of the process.

However, whilst providing a central control focus, this arrangement was inflexible as each control loop had its own controller hardware so system changes required reconfiguration of signals by re-piping or re-wiring. It also required continual operator movement within a large control room in order to monitor the whole process. With the coming of electronic processors, high speed electronic signalling networks and electronic graphic displays it became possible to replace these discrete controllers with computer-based algorithms, hosted on a network of input/output racks with their own control processors. These could be distributed around the plant and would communicate with the graphic displays in the control room. The concept of *distributed control* was realised.

The introduction of distributed control allowed flexible interconnection and re-configuration of plant controls such as cascaded loops and interlocks, and interfacing with other production computer systems. It enabled sophisticated alarm handling, introduced automatic event logging, removed the need for physical records such as chart recorders, allowed the control racks to be networked and thereby located locally to plant to reduce cabling runs, and provided high-level overviews of plant status and production levels. For large control systems, the general commercial name *distributed control system* (DCS) was coined to refer to proprietary modular systems from many manufacturers which integrated high speed networking and a full suite of displays and control racks.

While the DCS was tailored to meet the needs of large continuous industrial processes, in industries where combinatorial and sequential logic was the primary requirement, the PLC evolved out of a need to replace racks of relays and timers used for event-driven control. The old controls were difficult to re-configure and debug, and PLC control enabled networking of signals to a central control area with electronic displays. PLC were first developed for the automotive industry on vehicle production lines, where sequential logic was becoming very complex.\[4\] It was soon adopted in a large number of other event-driven applications as varied as printing presses and water treatment plants.

SCADA's history is rooted in distribution applications, such as power, natural gas, and water pipelines, where there is a need to gather remote data through potentially unreliable or intermittent low-bandwidth and high-latency links. SCADA systems use [開迴路控制器](../Page/開迴路控制器.md "wikilink") with sites that are widely separated geographically. A SCADA system uses [remote terminal units](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/remote_terminal_unit "wikilink") (RTUs) to send supervisory data back to a control center. Most RTU systems always had some capacity to handle local control while the master station is not available. However, over the years RTU systems have grown more and more capable of handling local control.

The boundaries between DCS and SCADA/PLC systems are blurring as time goes on.\[5\] The technical limits that drove the designs of these various systems are no longer as much of an issue. Many PLC platforms can now perform quite well as a small DCS, using remote I/O and are sufficiently reliable that some SCADA systems actually manage closed loop control over long distances. With the increasing speed of today's processors, many DCS products have a full line of PLC-like subsystems that weren't offered when they were initially developed.

In 1993, with the release of IEC-1131, later to become [IEC-61131](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEC-61131 "wikilink")-3, the industry moved towards increased code standardization, reusable, hardware-independent control software. For the first time, [面向对象程序设计](../Page/面向对象程序设计.md "wikilink") (OOP) became possible within industrial control systems. This led to the development of both (programmable automation controllers) (PAC) and industrial PCs (IPC). These are platforms programmed in the 5 standardized IEC languages (Ladder Logic, Structured Text, Function Block, Instruction List and Sequential Function Chart). They can also be programmed in modern high-level languages such as C or C++. Additionally, they accept models developed in analytical tools such as [MATLAB](../Page/MATLAB.md "wikilink") and Simulink. Unlike traditional PLCs, which use proprietary operating systems, IPCs utilize [Windows IoT](../Page/Windows_IoT.md "wikilink"). IPC's have the advantage of powerful multi-core processors with much lower hardware costs than traditional PLC's and fit well into multiple form factors such as DIN rail mount, combined with a touch-screen as a "panel-pc", or as an embedded PC. New hardware platforms and technology have contributed significantly to the evolution of DCS and SCADA systems, further blurring the boundaries and changing definitions.

## 相關條目

  - [自动化技术](../Page/自动化技术.md "wikilink")

  - [工業安全系統](../Page/工業安全系統.md "wikilink")

  -
  -
  - （SIS）

  -
  -
## 參考資料

## 延伸閱讀

  - [Guide to Industrial Control Systems (ICS) Security](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-82/rev-2/final), SP800-82 Rev2, *National Institute of Standards and Technology*, May 2015.

  -
  - [10 Reasons to choose PC Based Control](https://www.automationmag.com/factory/5055-10-reasons-to-choose-pc-based-control), Manufacturing Automation, Feb, 2015

## 外部連結

  - [New Age of Industrial Controllers](http://www.aandd24.in/pi-india/index.php?StoryID=189&articleID=125366)
  - [Proview](http://www.proview.se) Open source Process Control System
  - [A simple guide to Embedded PLCs](http://plccompare.com/embedded-plc-guide/)

[Category:工業自動化](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:工業自動化 "wikilink") [Category:控制工程](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:控制工程 "wikilink")

1.  [NIST SP 800-82](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-82/archive/2011-06-09)
2.
3.
4.  M. A. Laughton, D. J. Warne (ed), *Electrical Engineer's Reference book, 16th edition*,Newnes, 2003 Chapter 16 *Programmable Controller*
5.