**巴巴克·胡拉姆丁**（，拉丁转写：Bābak Khorramdin；795年（一说是798年）- 838年1月7日\[1\]），[波斯人](../Page/波斯人.md "wikilink")，\[2\]\[3\]\[4\]\[5\]\[6\]\[7\]是位重要的伊朗革命领袖，\[8\]\[9\]曾引导当地人与[阿拔斯王朝](../Page/阿拔斯王朝.md "wikilink")进行斗争。他被认为是阿塞拜疆的民族英雄之一。

## 参考资料

### 来源

  -
[Category:伊朗反叛者](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:伊朗反叛者 "wikilink")

1.  3 [色法尔月](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/色法尔月 "wikilink") 223
2.  Arthur Goldschmidt, Lawrence Davidson, "A concise history of the Middle East", Westview Press; Eighth Edition (July 21, 2005). Pg 81: "..a Persian named Babak whose rebellion lasted twenty years. Victorious in every battle, these uprisings were inspired by Persia's pre-Islamic religions, such as [Zoroastrianism](../Page/琐罗亚斯德教.md "wikilink") (The faith of [Sassanid](../Page/萨珊王朝.md "wikilink") rulers) and a peasant movement called "
3.
4.  Daniel Pipes, "Slave soldiers and Islam: the genesis of a military system ", Middle East Forum, 1981. pg 153: "Al-Mutasim undertook two military campaigns during his caliphate, the attack on Amorium (a town in Anatolia) and the suppression of the Persian rebel Babak."
5.  Bernard Lewis, "The Arabs in History", Oxford University Press, 2002. pp 109–110.
6.  Armenian historian Vardan Areweltsʻi, ca. 1198–1271 notes: In these days, a man of the PERSIAN race, named Bab, who had went from Baltat killed many of the race of Ismayil(what Armenians called Arabs) by sword and took many slaves and thought himself to be immortal... See: La domination arabe en Armènie, extrait de l’ histoire universelle de Vardan, traduit de l’armènian et annotè, J. Muyldermans, Louvain et Paris, 1927, pg 119: *En ces jours-lá, un homme de la race PERSE, nomm é Bab, sortant de Baltat, faiser passer par le fil de l’épée beaucoup de la race d’Ismayēl tandis qu’il..* Original : Havoursn haynosig ayr mi hazkes Barsitz Pap anoun yelyal i Baghdada, arganer zpazoums i sour suseri hazken Ismayeli, zpazoums kerelov. yev anser zinkn anmah. yev i mium nvaki sadager yeresoun hazar i baderazmeln youroum ent Ismayeli
7.  The Arab historian ʻAlī ibn Aḥmad **ibn Ḥazm** (994–1064) mentions the different Iranian revolts against the Caliphate in *Al-Faṣl fi l-Milal & l-Ahwāʾ & n-Niḥal*.
8.  Bernard Lewis (1991), "The Political Language of Islam", University of Chicago Press, pp 314. "The last and most nearly successful of the Iranian movements, however was that of Babak, who established his independence in [Adharbayjan](../Page/伊朗阿塞拜疆.md "wikilink") early in al-Mamun's reign."
9.