**布达德夫·巴塔查尔吉**（，），2000年11月6日当选为[印度](../Page/印度.md "wikilink")[西孟加拉邦首席部长](../Page/西孟加拉邦.md "wikilink")，[印度共产党
(马)的](../Page/印度共产党_\(马\).md "wikilink")[政治局成员](../Page/政治局.md "wikilink")。

  - 1944年，布达德夫·巴塔查尔吉出生在[加尔各答北区](../Page/加尔各答.md "wikilink")，家族中另一个著名人物是革命诗人Sukanta
    巴塔查尔吉，是他父亲的堂兄弟。
  - 1964年他从管辖区学院毕业后不久，就加入了[印度共产党 (马)](../Page/印度共产党_\(马\).md "wikilink")
    成为基本成员。他除了参与食物运动，还在1968年支持越南。\<\!-- 他被指定为[印度共产党
    (马)的青年支部state](../Page/印度共产党_\(马\).md "wikilink")
    secretary of the Democratic Youth Federation, that was later merged
    into the [Democratic Youth Federation of
    India](../Page/Democratic_Youth_Federation_of_India.md "wikilink").
  - 1977，他首次被选进立法会。His constituency then was
    [Kashipur](../Page/Kashipur.md "wikilink"). It was the first time
    that the CPI(M)-led [Left Front](../Page/Left_Front.md "wikilink")
    came to power in [西孟加拉邦](../Page/西孟加拉邦.md "wikilink"). He was given
    charge of the ministry of information and culture; it was his
    favorite position and during his tenure he contributed to
    [孟加拉语](../Page/孟加拉语.md "wikilink")
    [戏剧](../Page/戏剧.md "wikilink"),
    [电影和](../Page/电影.md "wikilink")[音乐](../Page/音乐.md "wikilink")。

After losing the 1982 assembly election from Kashipur, he changed his
constituency to [Jadavpur](../Page/Jadavpur.md "wikilink") in 1987. The
move was successful; he won comfortably and regained his post as
information and culture minister, with additional charge of municipal
affairs.

The 1991 assembly election saw him win again from Jadavpur. However,
after a few years, Bhattacharya fell out of favour when he criticised
certain aspects of his party. Though there was no official reaction from
either [Jyoti Basu](../Page/Jyoti_Basu.md "wikilink") (then Chief
Minister of West Bengal), or the CPI(M), Bhattacharya resigned from the
ministry.

Bhattacharya was initially a teacher at the *Dum Dum Adarsh Vidya
Mandir*. He has written a book of poems (*Chena Phooler Gondho*, or "The
Fragrance Of The Known Flowers"), written for the stage, and
[translated](../Page/translation.md "wikilink") the works of [Gabriel
García Márquez](../Page/Gabriel_García_Márquez.md "wikilink") and
[Vladimir Mayakovsky](../Page/Vladimir_Mayakovsky.md "wikilink") into
Bengali. Like many [Bengali
people](../Page/Bengali_people.md "wikilink"), he is also an admirer of
[Rabindra Sangeet](../Page/Rabindra_Sangeet.md "wikilink").

Bhattacharya is also known to be a passionate
[cricket](../Page/cricket.md "wikilink") fan. An avid traveller, he has
toured extensively in [China](../Page/China.md "wikilink"), the
erstwhile [苏联](../Page/苏联.md "wikilink"),
[古巴](../Page/古巴.md "wikilink"), [越南](../Page/越南.md "wikilink"),
[英国](../Page/英国.md "wikilink"), [France](../Page/France.md "wikilink")
and [Singapore](../Page/Singapore.md "wikilink").

Bhattacharyya and his wife Meera have a daughter, Suchetana who is an
environment and wildlife activist.

In 1996, the CPI-M won the West Bengal assembly elections for the fifth
consecutive time. Bhattacharya was once again appointed information and
culture minister, but with additional authority over the home (police)
ministry. Basu continued looking after home (personnel).

Not only did the two leaders (Jyoti Basu & Bhattacharya) become closer
during this period, Bhattacharya also matured as a politician. He is
considered to be one of the few leaders who is both moderate and
efficient and can balance both the hardliners and liberals in the party.
Which was why, after 1996, he was always considered a viable alternative
to Basu.

This eventually led to his being promoted the Chief Minister, when Basu
finally decided to step down in 2000, ahead of the State Assembly
elections due in May 2001. Though Basu was ill and aged, his government
was fast losing popularity. There were unsubstantiated media stories
about corruption involving Basu's son, and the state economy was
generally losing steam. There was an investment flight away from the
state, increased [joblessness](../Page/unemployment.md "wikilink") in
urban areas, a serious crunch in technical and medical education
facilities and a near-breakdown of health services at the time.
Bhattacharya was made the Chief Minister with the objective of making
the administration look cleaner (he is seen as 'uncorruptible' to this
day even by his critics) and more efficient. His clean image was
primarily responsible for winning a record 6th term for the Left Front
government in West Bengal in May 2001, though with a much reduced
majority.

After becoming the chief minister Bhattacharya has liberalised Bengal's
[economy](../Page/economy.md "wikilink") significantly. He has attracted
a lot of foreign investment in Bengal. Many new industries and
[IT](../Page/Information_Technology.md "wikilink") related services have
emerged under his leadership. He is generally seen as a Communist leader
who is open to reforms. However, his opponents have criticized him for
taking farmlands to build industries. Bhattacharya said in return, that
these farmlands were not so productive and they will provide better jobs
to many poor people. Some communists have also criticized Bhattacharya
for pursuing economic reforms. Recently Bhattacharya said that he does
not want to unionize the IT industry. [Labour
unions](../Page/Labour_union.md "wikilink") of Bengal have criticized
this decision saying that this will lead to the exploitation of IT
workers.

His biggest asset proved to be his clean image, which helped him lead
the Left Front to a 7th consecutive term in 2006 Assembly Elections. He
personally won from Jadavpur constituency with 127,837 votes. His
victory margin went up from 29,281 in 2001 to 58,130 in 2006. His
coalition improved its tally from 199 seats \[out of 300\] to 235 and
reduced the other opposition parties to insignificance.

## Controversy

In January 2006 the [Supreme Court of
India](../Page/Supreme_Court_of_India.md "wikilink") issued notices to
Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and others in connection with land allotements
made in the [Salt Lake
City](../Page/Bidhan_Nagar,_Kolkata.md "wikilink") township in
[Kolkata](../Page/Kolkata.md "wikilink").
[1](http://www.hindu.com/2006/01/24/stories/2006012405351200.htm)

On [March 14](../Page/March_14.md "wikilink"),
[2007](../Page/2007.md "wikilink"), farmers were protesting against
government plans to set up a chemical hub and an industrial zone in a
hamlet called [Nandigram](../Page/Nandigram.md "wikilink") in [West
Bengal](../Page/West_Bengal.md "wikilink"). Bhattacharya ordered a
"police action" against the farmers that led to the deaths of 14
protesters and 70 injuries. Buddhadev Bhattacharya has come under heavy
criticism not only from opposition parties (such as the [Trinamool
Congress](../Page/Trinamool_Congress.md "wikilink")) and other [Left
Front](../Page/Left_Front.md "wikilink") coalition allies like
[CPI](../Page/Communist_Party_of_India.md "wikilink"), [
RSP](../Page/Revolutionary_Socialist_Party_\(India\).md "wikilink") and
[Forward Block](../Page/Forward_Block.md "wikilink"), who threatened to
back out from the ministry on this issue, but also from his mentor and
the state's former chief minister, [Jyoti
Basu](../Page/Jyoti_Basu.md "wikilink"). On [March
15](../Page/March_15.md "wikilink"), [2007](../Page/2007.md "wikilink")
Basu criticized Bhattacharya for failing to restrain the police in
Nandigram.[2](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/6457035.stm)
Bhattacharya has tried to justify the police firing at Nandigram
[3](http://www.indiadaily.org/entry/buddhadev-defends-nandigram-police-action/),
although he has also expressed regret for the shootings
[4](http://www.hindu.com/2007/03/16/stories/2007031609061400.htm). This
incident has resulted in the many of the left intellectuals, writers,
singers and actors declaring their mistrust on
[CPI(M)](../Page/CPI\(M\).md "wikilink") and Buddhadev Bhattacharya and
many authors returning their state-given awards, or stepping down from
their honorary posts in various state-government cultural organizations.
The CPI(M) has declared that they are totally behind Bhattacharya and
support the shootings and have drawn "plans" to placate his
critics.[5](http://www.indianexpress.com/sunday/story/25999.html) --\>

[Category:印度政治人物](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:印度政治人物 "wikilink")
[Category:印度共产党](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:印度共产党 "wikilink")
[Category:加尔各答人](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:加尔各答人 "wikilink")