[Localisation_Blombos.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Localisation_Blombos.jpg "fig:Localisation_Blombos.jpg")
**布隆伯斯洞窟**是位於[南非](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/南非 "wikilink")[開普敦以東約](../Page/開普敦.md "wikilink")300公里的一個[石灰岩溶洞](../Page/石灰岩.md "wikilink")。因發現了有7萬年歷史的刻有抽象設計和織紋的[赭石珠子](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/赭石 "wikilink")、貝殼，和8萬年歷史的[骨制工具而成為著名的](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/骨制工具 "wikilink")[考古工地](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/考古 "wikilink")。另外亦發現了一些關於14萬年前貝殼和捕魚的證據。洞穴於1991年首次被發掘，考古工作自1997年起定期進行至今\[1\]。

## 參考資料

## 延伸阅读

  - d’Errico, F. & Henshilwood, C.S. 2007. Additional evidence for bone
    technology in the southern African Middle Stone Age. Journal of
    Human Evolution 52:142–163.
  - Henshilwood, C.S. 2006. Modern humans and symbolic behaviour:
    Evidence from Blombos Cave, South Africa. In *Origins* (ed. G.
    Blundell). Cape Town: Double Storey: 78–83.
  - Henshilwood, C. S. & Marean, C. W. 2006. Remodelling the origins of
    modern human behaviour. In : The Prehistory of Africa: Tracing the
    lineage of modern man (ed. H. Soodyall). Johannesburg: Jonathan Ball
    Publishers: 31–46.
  - Henshilwood, C.S. & d’Errico, F. 2005. Being modern in the Middle
    Stone Age: Individuals and innovation. In *The Individual hominid in
    context: Archaeological investigations of Lower and Middle
    Palaeolithic landscapes, locales and artefacts*. (eds. C. Gamble &
    M. Porr).Routledge (Taylor Francis): 244–264
  - Henshilwood, C. S. 2005. Stratigraphic integrity of the Middle Stone
    Age levels at Blombos Cave. In *From Tools to Symbols. From Early
    Hominids to Modern Humans*. (eds. F. d’Errico & L. Backwell).
    Johannesburg, Witwatersrand University Press: 441–458.
  - d’Errico, F., Henshilwood, C., Vanhaeren, M., van Niekerk. K. 2005.
    Nassarius kraussianus shell beads from Blombos Cave: Evidence for
    symbolic behaviour in the Middle Stone Age. *Journal of Human
    Evolution* 48:3–24.
  - Henshilwood, C.S. 2004. The Origins of Modern Human Behaviour:
    Exploring the African evidence. In *Combining the Past and the
    Present: Archaeological perspectives on society*. (eds. T.
    Oestigaard, N. Anfinset and T. Saetersdal). BAR International Series
    1210: 95–106.
  - Henshilwood, C.S., d’Errico, F., Vanhaeren, M., van Niekerk, K.,
    Jacobs, Z. 2004. Middle Stone Age shell beads from South Africa.
    *Science*, 384:404.
  - Henshilwood, C.S. & Marean, C.W. 2003. The origin of modern human
    behaviour: A review and critique of models and test implications.
    *Current Anthropology* 44 (5): 627–651
  - d’Errico F., Henshilwood C., Lawson G., Vanhaeren M., Soressi M.,
    Bresson F., Tillier A.M., Maureille B., Nowell A., Backwell L.,
    Lakarra J.A., Julien M. 2003. The search for the origin of
    symbolism, music and language: a multidisciplinary endeavour.
    *Journal of World Prehistory*, 17 (1): 1–70.
  - Henshilwood, C.S., d’Errico, F., Yates, R., Jacobs, Z., Tribolo, C.,
    Duller, G.A.T., Mercier N., Sealy, J.C., Valladas, H., Watts, I. &
    Wintle, A.G. 2002. Emergence of Modern Human Behaviour: Middle Stone
    Age engravings from South Africa. *Science* 295:1278–1280.
  - Grine, F.E. & Henshilwood, C.S. 2002. Additional Human Remains from
    Blombos Cave, South Africa: (1999–2000 excavations). *Journal of
    Human Evolution* 42: 293–302.
  - Henshilwood, C.S., Sealy, J.C., Yates, R.J., Cruz-Uribe, K.,
    Goldberg, P., Grine, F.E., , Klein, R.G., Poggenpoel, C., van
    Niekerk, K.L., Watts, I. 2001a. Blombos Cave, southern Cape, South
    Africa: Preliminary report on the 1992 – 1999 excavations of the
    Middle Stone Age levels. *Journal of Archaeological Science* 28(5):
    421–448.
  - Henshilwood, C.S., d’Errico, F.E., Marean, C.W., Milo, R.G., Yates,
    R. 2001b. An early bone tool industry from the Middle Stone Age at
    Blombos Cave, South Africa: implications for the origins of modern
    human behaviour, symbolism and language. *Journal of Human
    Evolution* 41:631–678.
  - d’Errico, F., Henshilwood, C.S., & Nilssen, P. 2001. An engraved
    bone fragment from ca. 75 kyr Middle Stone Age levels at Blombos
    Cave, South Africa: implications for the origin of symbolism .
    *Antiquity*. 75, 309–18.
  - Grine, F.E., Henshilwood, C.S. & Sealy, J.C. 2000. Human remains
    from Blombos Cave, South Africa: (1997–1998 excavations). *Journal
    of Human Evolution*, 37: 755–765.
  - Henshilwood, C.S. 1997 Identifying the collector: Evidence for human
    consumption of the Cape dune mole-rat, Bathyergus suillus, from
    Blombos Cave, southern Cape, South Africa. *Journal of
    Archaeological Science* 24:659–662.
  - Henshilwood, C.S. & Sealy, J.C. 1997. Bone artefacts from the Middle
    Stone Age at Blombos Cave, southern Cape, South Africa. *Current
    Anthropology* 38(5):890–895.
  - Henshilwood, C. S. 1996. A revised chronology for the arrival of
    pastoralism in southernmost Africa: new evidence of sheep at ca.
    2000 b.p. from Blombos Cave, South Africa. *Antiquity* 70:945–949.

<!-- end list -->

  - Dating the Blombos deposits

<!-- end list -->

  - Jacobs, Z. Duller, G.A.T. Henshilwood, C.S. Wintle, A.G. 2006.
    Extending the chronology of deposits at Blombos Cave, South Africa,
    back to 140 ka using optical dating of single and multiple grains of
    quartz. Journal of Human Evolution 51: 255–273.
  - Tribolo, C., Mercier, N., Selo, M., Joron, J-L., Reyss, J-L.,
    Henshilwood, C., Sealy, J. & Yates, R. 2006. TL dating of burnt
    lithics from Blombos Cave (South Africa): further evidence for the
    antiquity of modern human behaviour. *Archaeometry*, 48 (2):
    341–357.
  - Jacobs, Z. Duller, G.A.T., Wintle, A.G. & Henshilwood, C.S.
    2006.Extending the chronology of deposits at Blombos Cave, South
    Africa, back to 140 ka using optical dating of single and multiple
    grains of quartz. *Journal of Human Evolution* 51: 255–273.
  - Jacobs, Z., Wintle, A. G. & Duller, G. A. T. (2003a). Optical dating
    of dune sand from Blombos Cave, South Africa: I—multiple grain data.
    *J. Hum. Evol.* 44, 599 – 612.
  - Jacobs, Z., Duller, G. A. T. & Wintle, A. G. (2003b). Optical dating
    of dune sand from Blombos Cave, South Africa: II—single grain data.
    *J. Hum. Evol.* 44, 613 – 625.

## 外部連結

  - [Blombos
    Cave](https://web.archive.org/web/20090310001113/http://www.svf.uib.no/sfu/blombos/)
    at the University of Bergen
  - [Blombos cave project website, Institute for Human
    Evolution](http://web.wits.ac.za/Academic/Research/IHE/Archaeology/Blombos/Blombos+Cave/)

[CAT:南非地理](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAT:南非地理 "wikilink")

[Category:钟乳洞](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:钟乳洞 "wikilink")

1.