**布魯斯·馬丁·賈科斯基**（**Bruce Martin
Jakosky**，）是一位美國行星科學家。曾經參與[海盗号](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/海盗号 "wikilink")、、[克萊門汀號](../Page/克萊門汀號.md "wikilink")、[火星觀察者號](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/火星觀察者號 "wikilink")、[火星全球探勘者號](../Page/火星全球探勘者號.md "wikilink")、[2001火星奧德賽號](../Page/2001火星奧德賽號.md "wikilink")、[火星科学实验室和](../Page/火星科学实验室.md "wikilink")[MAVEN等太空任務](../Page/MAVEN.md "wikilink")，並且投入多個未來太空任務的規劃。

## 經歷

賈科斯基於1982年在[加州理工學院獲得博士學位](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/加州理工學院 "wikilink")。他是[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校內屬於](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/科羅拉多大學博爾德分校 "wikilink")團隊的領導者，並且在許多國家諮詢委員會內服務。賈科斯基也是[科羅拉多大學博爾德分校](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/科羅拉多大學博爾德分校 "wikilink")的副主任。賈科斯基是地球和行星地質學與[外星生命的專家](../Page/外星生命.md "wikilink")，他的研究也包含了外星生命涉及科學和社會的相關哲學議題。他的研究興趣是行星表面地質學，尤其是[火星地質](../Page/火星地質.md "wikilink")，以及[火星大氣層演化和](../Page/火星大氣層.md "wikilink")[火星氣候](../Page/火星氣候.md "wikilink")、[大氣化學](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/大氣化學 "wikilink")、火星生命存在的可能性等等，以及[天文生物學的哲學和社會議題](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/天文生物學 "wikilink")\[1\]。

2008年9月一個環繞火星的[MAVEN衛星計畫被NASA選定為即將執行的探測任務](../Page/MAVEN.md "wikilink")。該探測器於2013年11月發射，賈科斯基是該計畫的主持人。這項耗資4.85億美金的計畫是科羅拉多大學博爾德分校至今執行的最大規模研究計畫\[2\]。

## 代表性著作

### 書籍

  - Jakosky, B.M. (1998). The search for life on other planets,
    Cambridge University Press.
  - Jakosky, B.M. (2006). Science, Society, and the Search for Life in
    the Universe, Univ. Arizona Press.

### 期刊論文

  - Henderson, B.G., B.M. Jakosky and C.E. Randall, A Monte Carlo Model
    of Polarized Thermal Emission from Particulate Planetary Surfaces,
    Icarus, 99, 51, 1992
  - Jakosky, B.M., Out on a limb: Martian atmospheric dust opacity
    during the past hundred years, Icarus, 117, 352-357, 1995
  - Mellon, M.T., and B.M. Jakosky, The distribution and behavior of
    martian ground ice during past and present epochs, [J. Geophys.
    Res.](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journal_of_Geophysical_Research "wikilink"),
    100, E6, 11,781-11,799, 1995
  - Henderson, B.G., P.G. Lucey, and B.M. Jakosky, New laboratory
    measurements of Mid-IR emission spectra of simulated planetary
    surfaces, J. Geophys. Res., 101, No. E, 14,969-14,975, 1996
  - Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Evolution of Martian atmospheric
    argon: Implications for sources of volatiles, J. Geophys. Res., 101,
    No. E, 14,933-14,949, 1996
  - Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Impact of a paleo-magnetic field
    on sputtering loss of martian atmospheric argon and neon, J.
    Geophys. Res., In Press, 1996
  - Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Sources of martian atmospheric
    volatiles, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1996
  - Hutchins, K.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Carbonates in martian meteorite
    ALH84001: A planetary perspective on formation temperature, Geophys.
    Res. Lett., In Press, 1996
  - Jakosky, B.M., Warm havens for life on Mars, New Scientist, 150,
    38-42, 1996
  - Jakosky, B.M., Martian stable isotopes: Volatile evolution, climate
    change, and exobiological implications, Orig. Life Evol. Biosphere,
    Submitted, 1996
  - Jakosky, B.M., R.C. Reedy, and J. Masarik, Carbon 14 measurements of
    the martian atmosphere as an indicator of atmosphere-regolith
    exchange of CO2, J. Geophys. Res., 101, 2247–2252, 1996
  - Mellon, M.T., B.M. Jakosky, and S.E. Postawko, The persistence of
    equatorial ground ice on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1996
  - Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Constraints on the solid-state
    greenhouse effect on the icy Galileo satellites, J. Geophys. Res.,
    101, No. E, 21,169-21,176, 1996
  - Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Lunar thermal emission and remote
    determination of surface properties, J. Geophys. Res., In Press,
    1996
  - Brain, D.A., and B.M. Jakosky, Atmospheric loss since the onset of
    the martian geologic record: The combined role of impact erosion and
    sputtering, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1997
  - Henderson, B.G., and B.M. Jakosky, Near-surface thermal gradients
    and mid-IR emission spectra: A new model including scattering and
    application to real data, J. Geophys. Res., 102, No. E, 6567-6580,
    1997
  - Hutchins, K.S.y, B.M. Jakosky, and J.G. Luhmann, Impact of a
    paleomagnetic field on sputtering loss of Martian atmospheric argon
    and neon, J. Geophys. Res., 102, No. E, 9183-9189, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., Mars mission satisfies age-old need to explore, Op-Ed
    piece, Daily Camera, 1-20, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., Martian exobiology, J. Geophys. Res., 102,
    23,673-23,674, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., Mars life? One year later, The Planetary Report, 17,
    10-13, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., Laying out the evidence: The case for life on Mars,
    Planetary Report, 17, 12-17, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., A.P. Zent and R.W. Zurek, The Mars water cycle:
    Determining the role of exchange with the regolith, Icarus, 130,
    87-95, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., and E.L. Shock, The biological potential of Mars, the
    early Earth, and Europa, J. Geophys. Res, Submitted, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., and J.H. Jones, The history of martian volatiles,
    Rev. Geophys., 135, 1-16, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., and J.H. Jones, The History of Martian Volatiles,
    Rev. of Geophys., 35, No. 1, 1-16, 1997
  - Jakosky, B.M., and others, Preliminary results of the Clementine
    Long-Wave Infrared Camera, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1997
  - Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Lunar thermal emission and remote
    determination of surface properties, J. Geophys. Res., 102, No. E,
    10,959-10,969, 1997
  - Brain, D.A., and B.M. Jakosky, Atmospheric loss since the onset of
    the martian geologic record: Combined role of impact erosion and
    sputtering, J. Geophys. Res., 103, 22,689-22,694, 1998
  - Colaprete, A., and B.M. Jakosky, Ice flow and rock glaciers on Mars,
    J. Geophys. Res., 103, 5897-5909, 1998
  - Jakosky, B.M., Opinion: Searching for life in the universe, The
    Planetary Report, July/, 1998
  - Jakosky, B.M., Searching for life in our solar system, Sci. American
    Presents... (Magnificent Cosmos), 9(1), 16-21, 1998
  - Jakosky, B.M., and E.L. Shock, The biological potential of Mars, the
    early Earth, and Europa, J. Geophys. Res., 103, 19,359-19,364, 1998
  - Jakosky, B.M., et al., Long-wave infrared observations of the Moon
    from the Clementine spacecraft: Preliminary results, J. Geophys.
    Res., Submitted, 1998
  - Jakosky, B.M., Martian stable isotopes: Volatile evolution, climate
    change, and exobiological implications, Origins Life Evolution
    Biospheres, 29, 47-57, 1999
  - Jakosky, B.M., The atmospheres of the terrestrial planets, in The
    New Solar System, 4th ed., edited by J.K. Beatty, C.C. Peterson, and
    A. Chaikin, Sky Publishing Corp., 175-192, 1999
  - Jakosky, B.M., Water, climate and life, *Science*, 283, 648-649,
    1999
  - Jakosky, B.M., M.T. Mellon, H.H. Kieffer, P.R. Christensen, E.S.
    Varnes, S.W. Lee, The thermal inertia of Mars from the Mars Global
    Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer, J. Geophys. Res., In Press,
    1999
  - Jakosky, B.M., and M.P. Golombek, Planetary science, astrobiology,
    and the role of science and exploration in society, EOS (Trans.
    Amer. Geophys. Union) Forum, In Press, 1999
  - Lawson, S.L., B.M. Jakosky, H.-S. Park, and M.T. Mellon, The
    Clementine Long-wave infrared global data set: Brightness
    temperatures of the lunar surface, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 1999
  - Urquhart, M.L., and B.M. Jakosky, Impact of near-surface thermal
    gradients on lunar thermal emission and subsurface temperatures, J.
    Geophys. Res., Submitted, 1999
  - Varnes, E.S., and B.M. Jakosky, Stability and lifetime of organic
    molecules at the surface of Europs, Icarus, Submitted, 1999
  - B.M. Jakosky, Philosophical aspects of astrobiology, in
    "Bioastronomy '99: A New Era in Bioastronomy", edited by G.A.
    Lemarchand and K.J. Meech, Astron. Soc. Pac., 661-666, In Press,
    2000
  - Jakosky, B.M. and M.P. Golombeck, Planetary science, astrobiology,
    and the role of science and exploration in society, EOS (Trans.
    Amer. Geophys. Union) Forum, 81, No.6, 58, In Press, 2000
  - Jakosky, B.M. and M.T. Mellon, Thermal inertia of Mars: Sites of
    exobiological interest, J. Geophys. Res., In Press, 2000
  - Jakosky, B.M., M.T. Mellon, H.H. Kieffer, P.R. Christensen, E.S.
    Varnes and S.W. Lee, The thermal inertia of Mars from the Mars
    Global Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer, J. Geophys. Res.,
    105, 9643-9652, In Press, 2000
  - Lawson, S.L., B.M. Jakosky, H.-S. Park and M.T. Mellon, Brightness
    temperatures of the lunar surface: Calibration and global analysis
    of the Clementine long-wave infrared camera d, J. Geophys. Res.,
    105, No.E2, 4273-4290, In Press, 2000
  - Mellon, M.T., B.M. Jakosky, H.H. Kieffer and P.R. Christensen,
    High-resolution thermal-inertia mapping from the Mars Global
    Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer, Icarus, 148, 437-455, In
    Press, 2000
  - Ruff, S.W., P.R. Christensen, R.N. Clark, H.H. Kieffer, M.C. Malin,
    J.L. Bandfield, B.M. Jakosky, M.D. Lane, M.T. Mellon and M.A.
    Presley, Mars' "White Rock" feature lacks evidence of an aqueous
    origin: Results from Mars Global Surveyor, J. Geophys. Res., In
    Press, 2000
  - Pelkey, S.M., B.M. Jakosky and M.T. Mellon, Thermal in inertia of
    crater-related wind streaks on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., Submitted,
    2001
  - Christensen, P.R., J.L. Bandfield, V.E. Hamilton, S.W. Ruff, H.H.
    Kieffer, T. Titus, M.C. Malin, R.V. Morris, M.D. Lane, R.L. Clark,
    B.M. Jakosky, M.T. Mellon, J.C. Pearl, B.J. Conrath, M.D. Smith,
    R.T. Clancy, R.O. Kuzmin, T. Roush, G.L. Mehall, N. Gorel, Mars
    Global Surveyor Thermal Emission Spectrometer experiment:
    Investigation description and surface science results, J. Geophys.
    Res., 106, 23,823-23,871, 2001
  - Colwell, J.E. and B.M. Jakosky, Effects of topography on thermal
    infrared spectra of planetary surfaces, J. Geophys. Res., 107, No.
    E, 16-1 to 16-6, 10.1029/2001JE001829, 2001
  - Jakosky, B.M. and M.T. Mellon, High-resolution thermal-inertia
    mapping of Mars: Sites of exobiological relevance, J. Geophys. Res.,
    106, 23,887-23,907, 2001
  - Jakosky, B.M. and R.J. Phillips, Mars' volatile and climate history,
    *Nature*, 412, 237-244, 2001
  - Jakosky, B.M., and M.T. Mellon, High-resolution thermal-inertia
    mapping of mars: Sites of exobiological relevance, J. Geophys. Res.,
    106, E10, 23,165-23,907, 2001
  - Jakosky, B.M., and R.J. Phillips, Mars volatile and climate
    evolution: Water the major constraints?, Nature (Insight), 412,
    6843, 237-244, 2001
  - Lawson, S.L. and B.M. Jakosky, Lunar surface thermophysical
    properties derived from Clementine LWIR and UVVIS images, J.
    Geophys. Res., 106, 27911-27932, 2001
  - Pelkey, S.M., B.M. Jakosky and M.T. Mellon, Thermal inertia of
    crater-related wind streaks on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 106, E10,
    23,909-23,920, 2001
  - Phillips, R.J., M.T. Zuber, S.C. Solomon, M.P. Golombek, B.M.
    Jakosky, W.B. Banerdt, D. E. Smith, R.M.E. Williams, B.M. Hynek, O.
    Aharonson, and S.A. Hauck II, Ancient geodynamics and global-scale
    hydrology on Mars, *Science*, 291, 2587–2591, 2001
  - Ruff, S.W., P.R. Christensen, R.N. Clark, H.H. Kieffer, M.C. Malin,
    J.L. Bandfield, B.M. Jakosky, M.D. Lane, M.T. Mellon, and M.A.
    Presley, Mars' White Rock feature lacks evidence of an aqueous
    origin: Results from Mars Global Surveyor, J. Geophys. Res., 106,
    23,921-23,927, 2001
  - Pelkey, S.M. and B.M. Jakosky, Surficial geologic surveys of Gale
    Crater and Melas Crater, Mars, Icarus, 160, 228-257, 2002
  - Drake, M.J. and B.M. Jakosky, Narrow horizons in astrobiology,
    *Nature*, 415, 733-734, 2004
  - Pelkey, S.M., B.M. Jakosky, and P.R. Christensen (2004). Surficial
    properties in Gale Crater, Mars, from Mars Odyssey THEMIS data,
    Icarus, 167, 244-270.
  - Jakosky, B.M. and M.T. Mellon (2004). Water on Mars, Phys. Today,
    57, 71-76.
  - Jakosky, B.M., F. Westall, and A. Brack (2004). Mars, in
    Astrobiology (J. Baross and W. Sullivan, eds.), in press.
  - Christensen, P.R., S.W. Ruff, R. Fergason, N. Gorelick, B.M.
    Jakosky, M.D. Lane, A.S. McEwen, H.Y. McSween, G.L. Mehall, K.
    Milam, J.E. Moersch, S.M. Pelkey, A.D. Rogers, and M.B. Wyatt
    (2005). Mars Exploration Rover candidate landing sites as viewed by
    THEMIS, Icarus, 176, 12-43.
  - Solomon, S.C., O. Aharonson, J.M. Aurnou, W.B. Banerdt, M.H. Carr,
    A.J. Dombard, H.V. Frey, M.P. Golombek, S.A. Hauck II, J.W. Head
    III. B.M. Jakosky, C.L. Johnson, P.J. McGovern, G.A. Neumann, R.J.
    Phillips, D.E. Smith, and M.T. Zuber (2005). New perspectives on
    ancient Mars, *Science*, 307, 1214-1220.
  - Jakosky, B.M., M.T. Mellon, E.S. Varnes, W.C. Feldman, W.V. Boynton,
    and R.M. Haberle (2005). Mars low-latitude neutron distribution:
    Possible remnant near-surface water ice and a mechanism for its
    recent emplacement, Icarus, 175, 58-67.
  - Martinez-Alonso, S., B.M. Jakosky, M.T. Mellon, and N.E. Putzig
    (2005). A volcanic interpretation of Gusev Crater surface materials
    from thermophysical, spectral, and morphological evidence, J.
    Geophys. Res., 110, E01003, .
  - Christensen, P.R., H.Y. McSween, Jr., J. L. Bandfield, S.W. Ruff,
    A.D. Rogers, V.E. Hamilton, N. Gorelick, M. B. Wyatt, B.M. Jakosky,
    H. H. Kieffer, M.C. Malin, and J. E. Moersch (2005), Evidence for
    magmatic evolution and diversity on Mars from infrared observations,
    Nature, .
  - Link, L.S., B.M. Jakosky, and G.D. Thyne (2005). Biological
    potential of low-temperature aqueous environments on Mars, Int. J.
    Astrobiology, 4, 155-164.
  - Martinez-Alonso, S., M.T. Mellon, B.C. Kindel, and B.M. Jakosky
    (2006). Mapping compositional diversity on the surface of Mars: The
    spectral variance index, J. Geophys. Res., 111,
    10.1029/2005JE002492.
  - Chojnacki, M., B.M. Jakosky, and B.M. Hynek (2006). Surficial
    properties of landslides and surrounding units in Ophir Chasma,
    Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 111, E04005,
  - Jakosky, B. M., B. M. Hynek, S. M. Pelkey, M. T. Mellon, S.
    Martínez-Alonso, N. E. Putzig, N. Murphy, and P. R. Christensen
    (2006). Thermophysical properties of the MER and Beagle II landing
    site regions on Mars, J. Geophys. Res., 111, E08008, .
  - Des Marais, D.J., B.M. Jakosky, and B.M. Hynek (2006).
    Astrobiological implications of Mars surface composition and
    properties, in Mars Surface Composition, Mineralogy, and Physical
    Properties, J.F. Bell III, ed., Cambridge Univ. Press, in press.

## 參考資料

## 外部連結

  - [Bruce M.
    Jakosky](https://web.archive.org/web/20081007151929/http://www.colorado.edu/GeolSci/faculty/jakosky.html)
  - [Maven Mission Website](http://lasp.colorado.edu/maven/)
  - [CU Boulder Maven special
    report](https://web.archive.org/web/20080919002937/http://www.colorado.edu/news/reports/maven/)

[Category:美國地質學家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:美國地質學家 "wikilink")
[Category:行星科學家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:行星科學家 "wikilink")
[Category:加州理工學院校友](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:加州理工學院校友 "wikilink")
[Category:科羅拉多大學博爾德分校教師](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:科羅拉多大學博爾德分校教師 "wikilink")

1.
2.