> 本文内容由[彗星实验](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/彗星实验)转换而来。


**彗星实验**（），又称作**单细胞凝胶电泳实验**或**彗星电泳法**（，**SCGE**）是一种在单个[真核](../Page/真核生物.md "wikilink")[细胞](../Page/细胞.md "wikilink")水平上检测[DNA损伤的实验技术](../Page/DNA修復.md "wikilink")。彗星实验最初由Östling和Johansson在1984年发明，此后由 Singh等在1988年改进，此后成为了间的DNA损伤与修复、遗传毒性生物监测的最常用的标准实验技术。It involves the encapsulation of cells in a low-melting-point agarose suspension, lysis of the cells in neutral or alkaline (pH\>13) conditions, and electrophoresis of the suspended lysed cells. The term "comet" refers to the pattern of DNA migration through the electrophoresis gel, which often resembles a comet.\[1\]\[2\]

## 参考文献

<references />

## 延伸阅读

  - Dhawan & Anderson (2009): The Comet Assay in Toxicology. <small></small>
  - Avishai, Nanthawan; Rabinowitz, Claudette; Moiseeva, Elisabeth & Rinkevich, Baruch (2002): Genotoxicity of the Kishon River, Israel: the application of an *in vitro* cellular assay. *Mutation Research* **518**(1): 21–37. <small></small> (HTML abstract)
  - Collins, A.R.; Dobson, V.L.; Dusinska, M.; Kennedy, G. & Stetina, R. (1997): The comet assay: what can it really tell us? *Mutation Research* **375**(2): 183-193. <small></small> (HTML abstract)
  - Klaude, M.; Eriksson, S.; Nygren, J. & Ahnstrom, G. (1996): The comet assay: mechanisms and technical considerations. *Mutation Research* **363**(2): 89-96. <small></small>
  - McKelvey-Martin, Valerie J.; Ho, Edwin T.; McKeown, Stephanie R.; Johnston, S. Robin; McCarthy, Patsy J.; Rajab, Nor Fasilah & Downes, C. Stephen (1993): Emerging applications of the single cell gel electrophoresis (Comet) assay. I. Management of invasive transitional cell human bladder carcinoma. II. Fluorescent *in situ* hybridization Comets for the identification of damaged and repaired DNA sequences in individual cells. *Mutagenesis* **13**(1): 1-8. [PDF fulltext](http://mutage.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/reprint/13/1/1)
  - Olive, P.L.; Wlodek, D. & Banath, J.P. (1991): DNA double-strand breaks measured in individual cells subjected to gel electrophoresis. *Cancer Research* **51**(17): 4671-4676. [PDF fulltext](http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/reprint/51/17/4671.pdf)
  - Rojas, E.; Lopez, M.C. & Valverde, M. (1999): Single cell gel electrophoresis: methodology and applications. *Journal of Chromatography B* **722**(1-2): 225-254. <small></small> (HTML abstract)
  - Singh, N.P.; McCoy, M.T.; Tice, R.R. & Schneider, E.L. (1988): A simple technique for quantitation of low levels of DNA damage in individual cells. *Experimental Cell Research* **175**(1): 184-191. <small></small>
  - Tice, R.R.; Agurell, E.; Anderson, D.; Burlinson, B.; Hartmann, A.; Kobayashi, H.; Miyamae, Y.; Rojas, E.; Ryu, J.-C. & Sasaki, Y.F. (2000): Single Cell Gel/Comet Assay: Guidelines for In Vitro and In Vivo Genetic Toxicology Testing. *Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis* **35**(3): 206-221. <small></small>

[Category:化学鉴定](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:化学鉴定 "wikilink") [Category:電泳](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:電泳 "wikilink") [Category:分子生物学](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:分子生物学 "wikilink")

1.
2.  Nandhakumar S, Parasuraman S, Shanmugam M M, Rao K R, Chand P, Bhat B V. Evaluation of DNA damage using single-cell gel electrophoresis (Comet Assay).