**普拉特河**（、）是[内布拉斯加州的一条主要](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/内布拉斯加州 "wikilink")[河流](../Page/河流.md "wikilink")，长约500公里，由[北普拉特河](../Page/北普拉特河.md "wikilink")和[南普拉特河](../Page/南普拉特河.md "wikilink")汇合而成。

## 另见

  -
  - [Morning Star Lake (Nebraska)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morning_Star_Lake_\(Nebraska\) "wikilink")

  -
## 参考文献

## 延伸阅读

  - Alexander, J.S., D.M. Schultze, and R.B. Zelt. (2013). *Emergent sandbar dynamics in the Lower Platte River in Eastern Nebraska: methods and results of pilot study, 2011* \[U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2013-5031\]. Reston, VA: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Bruce, B.W. and P.B. McMahon. (1998). *Shallow ground-water quality of selected land-use/aquifer settings in the South Platte River Basin, Colorado and Nebraska, 1993-95* \[U.S. Geological Survey Water-resources Investigations Report 97-4229\]. Denver: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Condon, S.M. (2005). *Geologic studies of the Platte River, south-central Nebraska and adjacent areas, geologic maps, subsurface study, and geologic history* \[U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1706\]. Reston, VA: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Dennehy, D.F. et al. (1998). *Water quality in the South Platte River Basin, Colorado, Nebraska, and Wyoming, 1992-95* \[U.S. Geological Survey Circular 1167\]. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Druliner, A.D., B.J. Esmoil, and J.M. Spears. (1999). *Field screening of water quality, bottom sediment, and biota associated with irrigation drainage in the North Platte Project area, Nebraska and Wyoming, 1995* \[U.S. Geological Survey Water-resources Investigations Report 98-4210\]. Lincoln, NE: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Hardgree, M. (1995). *A selected bibliography on the hydrology of the Platte River Basin in Nebraska through 1991* \[U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 94-496\]. Lincoln, NE: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Kimbrough, R.A. and D.W. Litke. (1998). *Pesticides in surface water in agricultural and urban areas of the South Platte River Basin, from Denver, Colorado, to North Platte, Nebraska, 1993-94* \[U.S. Geological Survey Water-resources Investigations Report 97-4230\]. Denver: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Larson, L.R. (1985). *Water quality of the North Platte River, east-central Wyoming* \[U.S. Geological Survey Water-resources Investigations Report 84-4172\]. Cheyenne, WY: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Litke, D.W. (1996). *Sources and loads of nutrients in the South Platte River, Colorado and Nebraska, 1994-95* \[U.S. Geological Survey Water-resources Investigations Report 96-4029\]. Denver: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.
  - Sprague, L.A. and A.I. Greve. (2003). *Changes in nutrient and pesticide concentrations in urban and agricultural areas of the South Platte River Basin, Colorado, Wyoming, and Nebraska, 1994-2000* \[U.S. Geological Survey Water-resources Investigations Report 02-4270\]. Denver: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.

## 外部链接

  -
[Category:內布拉斯加州河流](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:內布拉斯加州河流 "wikilink") [Category:密苏里河支流](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:密苏里河支流 "wikilink")