The Tokyu 8000 series is a commuter train that was once registered with Tokyu Corporation .

Was started to introduce in 1969 (1969), all of the vehicles with the operation of the 2008 (2008) February 22, has been retired \[1\] . After the operation ended Izukyu and Indonesia is a railway company of PT. Kereta Api ( KRL Jabodetabek has been sold to), the latter only handle (transfer cars to Izukyu is in this article Izukyu 8000 train to view the articles in the )

Tokyu uses the vehicle number of the first car in the Shibuya / Oimachi direction for the organization designation . For this reason, in this article, the vehicle number of the first car in Shibuya / Oimachi direction is treated as an organization name notation (eg 8001F, “F” at the end is an acronym for Formation that means organization ).

table of contents 1 Overview 1.1 Appearance and performance 1.2 Operation 1.3 format 1.4 Minor morphological changes 2 Remodeling / renovation 2.1 Update 3 services 3.1 Mode of operation 3.2 Special operation 4 Final schedule 4.1 Toyoko Line / Minato Mirai Line 4.2 Oimachi Line and Denentoshi Line 5 Transfer / sale to other railway operators 6 footnotes 7 Related items Overview From the 1970s to the 1980s, it was expanded in large quantities as Tokyu's flagship car. In particular, 677 cars were manufactured as 8000 series in a broad sense in which the equipment is almost the same.

In the broad sense, the 8000 series

Series 8500 8090 series 8590 series ( explained in 8090 series ) However, only the 8000 series in the narrow sense is explained here.

Appearance / Performance 1962 (1962) appeared 7000-based tradition flow since the train America - Budd Company of license all by stainless steel in the car, function is in the form of a top-priority linear trend. With the aim of increasing transportation capacity and future use on the Shin-Tamagawa Line, Tokyu became the first 20m class, double door, four-door car body, which became the company's standard instead of the conventional 18m3 door car.

Very advanced for the equipment, the control system regenerative braking separate excitation that can be field chopper control the system world for the first time put into practical use in, also, cab to the operation system, as a production vehicle in Japan the first time, The "One-Handle Mascon" that integrates the Mascon handle and brake lever is used.

For the procedure of one handle master controller, "press brake by pulling- power running and how to say", the horse has two of the draft and vice versa based on your and how, but in the end were determined to former \[2 \] , this is " ergonomics have been evaluated with a system based on". Since then, Japanese railway vehicles have followed this method except for imported cars. In addition, the cab itself of one-handle system is Takamatsu Kotohira electric railway of 10000 shape and Teito Rapid Transit Authority (now Tokyo subway of) 6000 system had been adopted on a trial basis in such prototype vehicles, to be spread There wasn't.

In addition, it is equipped with \`\` all electric command type electromagnetic direct braking ' ' which was excellent in responsiveness and was the most advanced at that time , and the auxiliary power supply was replaced with the conventional motor generator (MG) which requires troublesome maintenance , Features such as the adoption of a static inverter (SIV) are seen \[3\] .

The main motor compound motor 3 Tsude of TKM-69 form, TKM-80 form, TKM-82 form of, Hitachi - Toyodenkiseizo - Toshiba is the three companies compete in composing \[4\] . Each motor has a difference in sound. The TKM-69 type is a motor manufactured by 1979 and emits bass in the high speed range. The TKM-80 is a motor after 1980, and the high speed range is high. The TKM-82 has been manufactured since 1982 for 1M control, with four motors in series / parallel control, and the sound in the low speed range has changed significantly. High-speed range produces almost the same sound as TKM-80.

The trolley follows the 7200 series, the power trolley is the TS-807, and the accompanying trolley is the Pioneer III series PIII-708 . \[5\] The PIII-708 type had difficulty in riding comfort \[2\] and was replaced with a TS-815F type that was structured in accord with the power truck from 1990 to 1993 \[6\] .

8001F non-cooling period (1985 Midorigaoka Station ) As for the cooling system , the primary car (8001F-8009F, 5 cars with 5 cars) appeared as a non-cooled car. At that time, a ventilator was installed on the roof . From the secondary car (8011F-), it appeared as a "cooling preparation car" with only the external cooling device on the roof . \[7\] Although this looks like an air-conditioned car, it is actually a non-air-conditioned car, so it is commonly called "Nisekler" or "Ku-Ra Car". These vehicles were later remodeled with a cooling device as originally designed. In addition, 8019F, the last secondary car , started operation on May 19, 1971 as Tokyu's first air conditioner equipped car . After that, except for the 4th car (8031F-8041F, 6 cars with 5 cars, air conditioning preparation car) and the 5200 model 8200, all the air conditioners are installed. Air conditioning equipment was installed in the mid-1970s, whereas primary cars were later cooled in the late 1980s, and the power supply equipment was different.

For some time from the beginning of production, the car body remained in a stainless steel background, but in the spring and summer of 1988 (Showa 63), along with the 7000 series, 7200 series , 7600 series and 7700 series , A red belt was placed.

Driver's cab console ( Izu Express Kumoha model 8250 )

The upper left is a plate showing a contract with Bud (Izu Express Kuha 8000 form)

Removal trace of electric lighting type automatic advertising equipment (Izukyu Kumoha 8250 type)

Operation Toyoko Line , Oimachi Line , but a total of 26 organization has been operating, with the introduction of the new vehicle, 2001 from (2001) scrapped is started, from the Toyoko 2008 (2008) January 13 Retired from the Oimachi line on February 22, 2008, with good-bye driving.

The 8005F (5-car train) on the Oimachi Line has been out of operation and detained in the Nagatsuta Inspection Zone since a door malfunction occurred in March 2006 . The next day, on January 31, 2007, a three-way trial operation was performed on the same line, but the operation did not return. This organization was sent to Nagatsuta Vehicle Factory on March 27, 2008 . The 8001F (5-car train) used on the Oimachi Line until the end was detained in the Nagatsuta Inspection Zone after leaving operation. This was also sent to Nagatsuta Vehicle Factory on March 31.

Format Refer to the organization chart below for the installed equipment .

Kuha 8000 (Tc1 / Tc2) Control car . The odd-numbered cars are connected to the top in the upward direction (Tc2), and the even-numbered cars are connected in the downward direction (Tc1). Both odd and even numbered cars will be equipped with ATC / ATS, and odd numbered cars will be equipped with 140kVA output motor generators (MG) . However, the primary car is a 170kVA static inverter. Deha 8100 (M1) An intermediate electric vehicle that forms a unit with Deha 8200 . Equipped with pantograph and control device. Deha 8200 (M2) An intermediate electric vehicle that forms a unit with Deha 8100. Equipped with auxiliary equipment such as electric air compressor , storage battery and SIV. Saha 8300 (T1) Accompanying car . Order to organize the 7-car train of Toyoko (4M3T) or 8-car train (5M3T), 1980 Year - 1982 8 both to have been manufactured. After that, all models were remodeled to Deha 8200 from 1985 to 1986 in order to improve the MT ratio of the 8-car train to 6M2T . Deha 8400 (first generation, M2) A lightweight stainless steel prototype manufactured in 1978 . Later, the function was incorporated into the same Deha 8200 form and disappeared (described later). Deha 8400 (2nd generation M) A single-control (1M system) electric vehicle manufactured in 1982 . Due to the terminal voltage, the Deha 8100 model without a unit has the disadvantage that the main motor is permanently connected in series and the regenerative braking that originally operates up to 22km / h expires at 45km / h. It was done. Changed the main motor from TKM-69 or TKM-80 (130kW at 375V terminal voltage) to TKM-82 (130kW at 750V terminal voltage), enabling series-parallel control and regenerative braking to operate up to 22km / h became. Nine cars were manufactured, but seven cars were later remodeled into the Deha 8100 form. Equipment that became unnecessary due to remodeling was reused for 8090 series expansion. Minor morphological changes At first glance, the outline of this series is quite uniform, but there are various variations due to differences in the width of rain gutters, roof perimeter processing, emergency exit door frames, and side destination indicators .

The side destination indicator has been enlarged from the 10th car. The original destination indicator was a manual lighting type display on the front and a small electric type display on the side, and either "fast / express" was turned on (each stop was turned off) \[8\] . After that, in 1980 (Showa 55), the front and sides were modified and used as electric direction curtains. Initially, the first car that had returned from the 8500 series organization was organized from both sides, and the other cars were gradually remodeled. By 1985, all cars were fully electrified. The fifth car that appeared for the Denentoshi Line (8043F-8051F) was completed with a 4-car train. The Deha 8100 type 8143-8147 incorporated into the formation was manufactured with two pantographs (usually one) as a countermeasure against disconnection \[9\] , and the main resistor was changed to one with a larger capacity than usual. Even after the number of cars was increased to five, two remained for some time, but the descending pantograph was later removed.

Lightweight stainless steel prototype (July 12, 2003 Tamagawa Station) Deha 8200 Type 8254/8255 is a prototype stainless steel lightweight body. These two cars were easily distinguished by the absence of a corrugated plate on the side of the car body, a bead with a roller press \[10\] , and a large rounded aperture at the hem \[11\] \[12\] . Although at the time of newbuildings has been the DEHA 8400 form 8401, No. 8402 of the new format, 1M cars DEHA 8400 Aratameban No. 8281 - 8282 due to the form of production, further 8090 system has been Bei Along with re-second break increase of \[13\] . Both are dismantled without being transferred. As production vehicle in light of performance of this vehicle, 8090 systems have been produced \[13\] . Vehicles manufactured after mass production of the 8090 series (after the 12th and 3rd cars) were light stainless steel cars, although their appearances did not change much . \[14\] The cross-sectional shape of the roof was changed, and the shoulders were rounded, and the range of the insulating material of the roof was narrowed, and part of the roof shoulder was exposed. However, because of the knitting beauty, the roof shoulders were again insulated after the 14th car. Since the leading car was not manufactured at this time, there was only an intermediate car of this type. Oimachi Line vehicles had been changed to pantograph single arm type (there was also a vehicle that was returned to the normal rhombus pantograph just before scrapping). At one time, there was a vehicle that was built and operated in the same line of the Denentoshi Line in order to control the number of new cars of the 8500 series . The first car used as a substitute for the intermediate car (8033-8044) had traces of bolts with penetrating hoods attached until later years (the renewed car was removed), and 8033-8042 for the Hanzomon Line of induction wireless antenna there is placed mark \[15\] . These will later return to the 8000 series of trains such as the Toyoko Line, but the direction curtain has been electrified starting with the knitting of the Kuha 8000 and new intermediate cars. Initially, the seats between the doors were 8 seats and the seats at the end of the car were 4 seats, but from 1980 vehicles were changed to 7 seats and 3 seats respectively, the landing space and per person The seat width has been expanded. Remodeling / renovation Kuha was a PIII-708 form the carriage of Pioneer III type you omit the axis spring only 8000 form of the carriage, but for the purpose of improving the ride comfort 1990 - 1993 is replaced with TS-815F-shaped in accordance to the electric car It was. In the 1990s, the Toyoko Line 8000 series entered the 1990s, with the aim of consolidating power supplies, unifying the Kuha 8000 type MG and the No. 6 Deha 8200 type into 170kVA-SIV, and removing all the existing 10kVA-SIV Has been. The 8031F Kuha 8031 was experimentally equipped with IGBT- SIV with the largest capacity of 250kVA in Japan in 2001 . Based on this result, the same type of SIV was officially adopted in the new 5000 series.

Update

Series 8000 renewal car (June 7, 2007 Jiyugaoka Station ) Conducted on the Toyoko affiliation organization, in 1992 from 1997, 11 organized to have been construction.

Remodeling carried out on all vehicles with update organization Change the front of the color scheme in the center is black, the both sides to those unique that the red band of the L-shaped, add Akatai to the low side position \[16\] (the first 8021 · 8023F is played in the normal color scheme, after the update In 1993, the red and black color scheme on the front of the renewed car is similar to Kabuki 's Tokumari (Kumadori), so it is also called “Kabuki Paint” \[17\] ). This design was inherited by the later 7700 series Ikegami Line one-man correspondence organization and the updated 7600 series , but due to the retirement of the 7700 series in November 2018, it is not possible to see Kabuki painting in the sales organization in the Tokyu Line It was. LED type / destination indicator ( from 8019F updated in August 1993 ) 1992 but 8021 · 8023F which is updated each time was left of the subtitle type (front exchange in English lettered), 8023F has been replaced to the LED only front \[18\] . The 8011, 8017, and 8019F that were updated in March 1994 used LEDs with coarse dots on the front, but they were replaced with fine dots in March 2001 when the express operation was started . Unupdated organization was also implemented in 1999 . Replace the outer surface of the stool with the same floral pattern as 2000 series (same as above) Due to the conspicuous dirt , it ended in 8011, 8017, 8019, 8025, 8031F updated in August 1995 \[19\] , and the replaced vehicle was then returned to the original Maroon and Orange. Remodeling carried out on vehicles manufactured before 1979 ( before the 10th car) during renewal organization Car body inspection and repair Of the side window sash -less and glass of thickening (3mm → 5mm) as well as the immobilization of Tsumamado Replacement of interior decorative board Wheelchair space installed in Cars 2 and 7 8043F2 car deha 8252 which was not subject to renewal and non-renewed organization were also installed later Shorten the stool to secure the door side space (8 to 7 seats between the doors, 4 to 3 seats at the end of the car) The stool between the doors is divided into 3 and 4 seats with a partition plate and pole to clarify the capacity Increased seat width from 420mm to 440mm In addition, the Oimachi Line has four simple updated cars (8001 and 8003) with the same appearance as the Toyoko Line in anticipation of early scrapped cars (simplified seat capacity, etc.)・ 8005 ・ 8047F) It existed.

Remodeling carried out for Oimachi Line organization Interior veneer replacement (excluding crew cabins) The decorative board pattern is the same as that of the 8500 series Wheelchair space installed in Car 4 An unupdated organization is also set up later. Service Mode of operation It was operated on Toyoko Line, Oimachi Line, Denentoshi Line. For details, refer to the item of each route.

Since the introduction of the 8090 series on the Toyoko Line, it was basically operated at each station except when the schedule was disturbed. However, when the schedule was revised on March 28, 2001, it was used frequently for express and express trains. It was. Immediately after the start of the limited express service, a special express mark with cherry blossoms on a blue background was posted for a limited time in the place where the former express signboard was posted .

5050 system after the introduction of the proceeds is scrapped due to aging, 2006 (2006) September 25, of the timetable revision from the weekday rush hour has been a service only.

Special services As mentioned above, there were also vehicles that were built into the 8500 series in the past. The Kuha 8000, which was built as a substitute for an intermediate car, was able to pass through the next vehicle by closing the cab with a through door and a crew door.

Vehicles on the Oimachi Line were temporarily put into operation on the Kodomonokuni Line when there were many passengers or when the 7000 series dedicated to the line was inspected. Mainly 8001F, 8003F, 8005F, 8049F, 8051F with the destination display of "Children's Country" were used, and the symbol of " Children's Country " was displayed on the front of the top car during operation .

In addition, in the summer of 1987 and 1988, only the upstream control vehicle was replaced between 8001F-8005F on the Oimachi Line and 8011F-8015F on the Toyoko Line. Of these, Kuha 8011 entered the Children's Country Line in the summer of 1988.

The 8007F on the Toyoko Line will be the same Izukyu color as the Izu Express transfer car from the front red belt, side obi from June 24, 2005, and as a temporary express train " Izu no Natsu " from 24 July the following day It was driven on the Toyoko Line and the destination Minato Mirai Line on Saturdays and Sundays ( excluding the 17th ) until the day (see the Izu no Natsuko for details). After that, it was not transferred to Izukyu, but sold to PT Kereta Api in Indonesia as it was in Izukyu Color.

Furthermore, from the same month, the Toyoko Line 8039F removed the red belt on the front of the front car, and the front destination indicator was replaced with the curtain type, which was the product of the 8021F, which had already been operated first. remains of stripping), honors the train at the time of operation in the passing marker lamps (such as express lamps) lighting, it has been operating been restored to form close to the time of appearance. The 8039F also withdrew from regular operation on June 22, 2007, and in commemoration of that, it operated as the event train “Revival Express 8000 series” on the 30th and July 1st of the same month . For this event train, the “Express” plate on the left side of the front of the front car and the “Shibuya”, “Kyu-Shibuya”, “Motozumi” that existed in the past, and the white ground that did not exist during past driving The front destination display with the black character “Motomachi / Chinatown” and the red character “Kyu-Motomachi / Chinatown” on the red background is prepared, and the front window glass support H rubber of Kuha 8039 has a paint close to white At the same time, posters reflecting on the history of the 8000 series were posted in the car. After the operation as an event train ended, this display was replaced with a special plate labeled “8000 Thank You\!” And entered the former Sumiyoshi inspection zone , and then returned to the normal display ( revival express) Series 8000 (Tokyu Corporation) ). After that, it was forwarded to Nagatsuta Inspection Zone, then evacuated to Kakinuma Depot on the 11th of the same month , and again sent to Nagatsuta Inspection Zone on August 12, the same year.After being sent to Nagatsuta Vehicle Factory on the 17th, it was sold to PT Kereta Api.

For the 8019F remaining on the Toyoko Line, on December 17th and 18th, 2007, the headmarks labeled "Goodbye 8019F 1971-2007" (Kuha 8019) and "8019F Retired 1971-2007" (Kuha 8020) were posted. In 18th, commercial operation was terminated. After that, it was sent to Nagatsuta Vehicle Factory on the 27th.

The other 8017F was equipped with an “Express” plate when it entered express operation after December 2007. In addition, on January 1st and 2nd, 2008, it will be operated on a Saturday / holiday timetable to commemorate the New Year, with “New Year's Day (1st) / Kagasho (2nd)” (Kuha 8017) and “Tsuruga New Year” on the front. It was operated with a plate labeled (Kuha 8018). This was driven by 17 trains designated for limited express during the day, but the operation was terminated by exchanging vehicles at 14:00 on both days.

And on January 13 of the same year , goodbye driving was carried out as a temporary express. ( 8000 series goodbye operation (Tokyu Corporation) ). In this case, the destination indicator on the front of the front car was replaced from the LED type to the curtain type, and the special express Motomachi / Chukagai, which was not present in the past, was designed at the start of the express operation (white in orange). The notation was prepared. In addition to the passage sign lights, the headmarks labeled “Thank you 8000 series” (Kuha 8017) and “8000 series goodbye 1969-2008” (Kuha 8018) were also posted. The service number was “39”. In the car, in addition to the 8000 series, a poster showing the production status of the head mark was posted. On the 23rd of the same month , the destination indicator on the front of the front car was returned from the curtain type to the LED type and sent to the Nagatsuta Vehicle Factory. With this, the 8000 series passenger business operation on the Toyoko Line and Minato Mirai Line was finished.

The 8039F No. 2, 4 and 7 cars (from the left in the photo) without a red belt on the front are 12th and 3rd lightweight vehicles with different car body sections.

8017F goodbye driving (Shibuya direction)

Ooimachi Line 8001F

Final organization chart Toyoko Line / Minato Mirai Line

← ShibuyaSakuragicho, Motomachi, Chinatown → Operation withdrawal timing Overview / Remarks Car 1 2 Three Four Five 6 7 8 format Kuha 8000 Deha 8200 Deha 8100 Deha 8200 Deha 8100 Deha 8200 Deha 8100 Kuha 8000 Installed equipment SIV, ATS / C CP, \[Car\] P, CONT CP P, CONT CP, SIV P, CONT, \[Car\] ATS / C Car number P8007 (1) P8245 (12-2) P8107 (1) P8260 (12-2) P8137 (4) P8204 (1) P8108 (1) P8008 (1) July 24, 2005 Final operation is " Natsu No. Izu " X8009 (1) X8242 (11-2) X8109 (1) X8257 (11-2) X8139 (4) X8205 (1) X8110 (1) X8010 (1) April 6, 2004 I8011 (2) X8227 (5) I8111 (2) X8220 (4) X8133 (4) X8206 (2) I8112 (2) I8012 (2) January 30, 2004 I8013 (2) X8228 (5) I8113 (2) X8221 (4) X8134 (4) X8207 (2) I8114 (2) I8014 (2) September 13, 2006 I8015 (2) X8229 (5) I8115 (2) X8222 (5) X8135 (4) X8208 (2) I8116 (2) I8016 (2) August 29, 2006 I8017 (2) X8230 (5) X8117 (2) X8235 (6) I8136 (4) X8209 (2) I8118 (2) X8018 (2) January 13, 2008 \[\* 1\] Toyoko Line goodbye driving organization I8019 (2) X8232 (6) X8119 (2) X8236 (6) I8138 (4) X8210 (2) X8120 (2) X8020 (2) December 18, 2007 At the time of final operation I8021 (3-1) X8233 (6) I8121 (3-1) X8217 (4) X8140 (4) X8211 (3-1) I8122 (3-1) X8022 (3-1) March 24, 2005 I8023 (3-1) X8234 (5) I8123 (3-1) X8262 (13) X8141 (4) X8212 (3-1) I8124 (3-1) I8024 (3-1) March 4, 2005 I8025 (3-1) X8237 (10-1) I8125 (3-1) P8263 (13) P8142 (4) P8213 (3-1) I8126 (3-1) X8026 (3-1) May 24, 2005 X8027 (3-1) X8254 (trial) X8127 (3-1) X8264 (13) X8143 (5) X8214 (3-1) X8128 (3-1) X8028 (3-1) March 4, 2003 I8029 (3-2) X8255 (trial) I8129 (3-2) X8219 (4) X8162 (13) X8215 (3-2) I8130 (3-2) I8030 (3-2) January 31, 2004 I8031 (4) X8231 (4) X8131 (4) X8256 (16-3) X8169 (18-2) X8216 (4) I8132 (4) X8032 (4) February 24, 2005 I8033 (4) X8243 (11-2) X8152 (11-1) X8258 (11-2) X8165 (13) X8240 (11-1) I8153 (11-1) I8034 (4) January 29, 2003 I8035 (4) X8250 (12-2) X8160 (12-3) X8259 (11-2) X8163 (13) X8241 (11-1) I8155 (11-1) X8036 (4) January 30, 2003 I8037 (4) X8246 (12-2) X8156 (12-3) X8261 (12-2) X8166 (13) X8247 (12-2) I8157 (12-3) X8038 (4) January 30, 2003 P8039 (4) P8248 (12-2) P8158 (12-3) P8218 (4) P8164 (13) P8249 (12-2) P8159 (12-3) P8040 (4) July 1, 2007 \[\* 2\] Red belt removal organization X8041 (4) X8244 (11-2) X8154 (11-1) X8238 (10-1) X8148 (10-1) X8251 (12-2) X8161 (12-3) X8042 (4) June-July 2001 I8043 (5) X8252 (13) I8150 (10-1) X8239 (10-1) X8149 (10-1) X8253 (13) I8151 (10-1) I8044 (5) April 2, 2004 ^ Regular operation withdrawal January 7 of the same year ^ Regular operation withdrawal on June 22

Oimachi Line, Denentoshi Line

← OimachiFutakotamagawa / Kakinuma → Operation withdrawal timing Overview Car 1 2 Three Four Five format Kuha 8000 Deha 8400 Deha 8100 Deha 8200 Deha 8100 Kuha 8000 Installed equipment SIV, ATS / C (8400) P, cont (8100) P, Cont SIV, CP, CP P, CONT ATS / C Car number X8001 (1) X8409 (13) X8201 (1) X8102 (1) X8002 (1) February 22, 2008 P8003 (1) P8103 (1) P8202 (1) P8104 (1) P8004 (1) November 1, 2005 X8005 (1) X8408 (13) X8203 (1) X8106 (1) X8006 (1) March 11, 2006 Door malfunction accident occurrence organization X8045 (5) X8167 (13) X8223 (5) X8144 (5) X8046 (5) April 2003 X8047 (5) X8168 (13) X8224 (5) X8145 (5) X8048 (5) February 2003 I8049 (5) X8105 (1) X8225 (5) X8146 (5) X8050 (5) May 2003 X8051 (5) X8101 (1) X8226 (5) X8147 (5) X8052 (5) February 2003

Legend Top row: format Second row from the top: Installed equipment, etc. CONT: 1C8M-Unit controller (controls 8 motors for 2 cars) Cont: 1C8M – single unit controller (controls only four motors for own vehicle and has the ability to control other vehicles) cont: 1C4M-single controller (controls only four motors for own vehicle, has no ability to control other vehicles) P: Pantograph CP: Air compressor \[Car\]: Wheelchair space installation car Vehicle with vehicle number style 0123 : Update vehicle Vehicle with vehicle number style 0123 : Lightweight prototype Number in parentheses after vehicle number: Production order-(the value) Next car. The prototype car is written as (trial). Color / symbol in frame: Status Light blue (I): Transferred to Izu Express after scrapped Green (P): Sold to PT. Kereta Api (Indonesian Railway Company) after scrapped Gray (X): Dismantled after scrapped

Transfer / sale to other railway operators

Izukyu color 8007F

8003F transferred to Indonesia This type of decommissioned vehicle was dismantled due to difficulties in negotiations for initial sales and the lack of space for decommissioning scrapped vehicles, but some vehicles have been transferred or sold since 2004 .

Izu Express For details, see " Izukyu 2100 series \# recent trends " and " Izukyu 200 series \# to retirement " From 2004 8000 (series name as it is, the vehicle number 8001 - swing back to) to start the transfer is as a result of continued to be transferred in a 10-car pace in one year, 2009, 45 cars will be transferred to up to degree , salt damage decrepit by 200 system on all models and the 2100 system (resort 21) was replaced by a 1-second car. Initially 50 cars were scheduled to be transferred to Izukyu, but because the 2100 series tertiary car that was originally planned was put off, five 8000 series were dismantled and removed from the Nagatsuta Factory without modification. It was. The 8049 was remodeled in advance in November 2004 as a two-car model prototype with the 8500 series 8723. After that, it was used for an exhibition at a local railway company, and then transferred to Izukyu after additional remodeling in July-September 2005 . PT. Kereta Api (currently PT KAI Commuter Jabodetabek ) In 2005, two 8-car trains were sold to PT. Kereta Api, an Indonesian railway company , and used on commuter trains near the capital Jakarta . One of them is 8007F used in the above-mentioned “Izu no Natsu No.” with the exterior as it is \[20\] , and the other one (8003F) is the yellow zone on the window, the yellow zone under the window + the red zone on the front It has been changed to an exterior under the window called “a thin red belt in the yellow belt” and is used respectively. The CI mark of Tokyu has been replaced with that of PT Kereta Api, but the car number has not changed since the Tokyu era, and the car number notation plate attached to the car body is still used. In addition, it is said tokyu8000 locally. It is used locally as Ekspres ( express ) and Ekonomi AC (normal air conditioner) because it is air-conditioned . \[20\] Vehicle has remained almost intact, but external orange skirt bottom front obstacle measures ( Haishouki ) is shatterproof film on the side window glass stoning measures, wire mesh on the front window glass, low-floor home Each door step is attached to the side to prevent getting on and off. Footnote \[ Help \] ^ "Railway schedule information" April 2008, page 79 ^ a b Tokitsu Toki “A Recollection of a Vehicle Engineer 3 Until the One-Handle Cab ” The “Railway Fan” September 1992 (Volume 377), Koyusha. ^ Saito, Hideo (January 1, 1970), “Overview of Series 8000”, Railway Pictorial 20 (1): 72-75 ^ Michiichi Miyata “Tokyu 8000 Family Record 1” “Railway Fan” August 2006 (Volume 544), Koyusha. ^ Satoshi Iijima "New Car Guide for Tokyu / Shin Tamagawa Line 8000 series" " Railway Fan " February 1970 issue (Volume 105), Koyusha . ^ Toshio Sakakibara "Private Vehicle Tour \[151\] Tokyu Corporation" "Railway Pictorial" Special Issue on Extra Edition (No. 600) in December 1994, Tokyu Corporation, Railway Books Publications. ^ Jiro Sugawara and Toshio Sugawara "Private Vehicle Tour \[111\] Tokyu Corporation" "Railway Pictorial" Special Issue (Special Issue 442 in June 1977) Special Issue on Tokyu Corporation and Railway Books. ^ Yoshiyuki Kameda, Shin Terasawa “Profile 8000 as seen by Tokyu fans” “Railway Pictorial” January 1985 issue (Volume 442), Railway book publication society. ^ Toshio Sugawara “Current Status of Tokyu Corporation Series 8000” “Railway Pictorial” September 1974 (Volume 297), Railway Book Publishing Association. ^ Atsumi Toki, “A Recollection of a Vehicle Engineer 10: A Struggle for Developing Lightweight Stainless Steel Vehicles,” “Railway Fan,” April 1993 (Vol. 384), Koyusha. ^ Shoichi Ichimura “About Tokyu Corporation 8400” “Railway Pictorial” March 1979 (Volume 359), Railroad Books Publications. ^ Toshio Sugawara “Karui Stainless Car Tokyu Deha 8400 Type” “Railway Fan” April 1979 (Volume 216), Koyusha. ^ a b Toshio Sugawara “Record of Tokyu 8000 Family 2” “Railway Fan” September 2006 (Volume 545), Koyusha. ^ Toshio Sakakibara "Travel of Private Railway Vehicles \[127\] Tokyu Corporation" "Railway Pictorial" Special Issue on Special Issue of January 1985 (Volume 442) Special Issue: Tokyu Corporation and Railway Books Publications. ^ Hideki Takahashi "Tokyo Express 8000 Series Group Morphology Analysis 1" "Railway Pictorial" November 2000 (Vol.693), Railway Books Publications. ^ Toshio Sakakibara “Tokyu Corporation 8000 series renewal construction” “Railway Pictorial” special edition special issue in October 1994 (Volume 597), New Car Yearbook 1994 edition, railway book publication society. ^ Kabukiza Photo Gallery Train Kabuki- Kabukiza Inc. ^ Tomoharu Kaneko and Ken Yakata “TOKYU YUDEN ELECTRIC VEHICLE PROFILE 2004” “Railway Pictorial” Special Issue in July 2004 (Volume 749) Special Issue, Tokyu Corporation and Railway Book Publications. ^ Hideki Takahashi “Footprint of the 8000 Series” “Railway Pictorial” Special Issue (Special Issue 749) in July 2004, Tokyu Corporation, Railway Book Publications. ^ a b Mikio Saito “Japanese trains that w [缩略图](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/[[缩略图 "wikilink") \]\]