本条目为[柯文哲](../Page/柯文哲.md "wikilink")著作的清单。

# 书籍

|                              |                                                                                                                        |         |            |        |                    |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ---------- | ------ | ------------------ |
| **书名**                       | **作者**                                                                                                                 | **出版社** | **出版时间**   | **页数** | **ISBN**           |
| 《ECMO手冊》                     | 柯文哲／著、[蔡壁如](../Page/蔡壁如.md "wikilink")／译                                                                               | 金名圖書    | 2016年5月1日  | 187页   | ISBN 9789578804760 |
| 《熱血仁醫：開創新局的臺大醫院駐院醫學團隊》       | 柯文哲、[林裕峯](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/林裕峯 "wikilink")、[臺大醫院駐院醫學團隊](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/臺大醫院 "wikilink")／合著 | 臺灣商務印書館 | 2013年10月1日 | 256页   | ISBN 9789570528817 |
| 《白色的力量：我改變不了四季的變化，只能讓其盡善盡美》  | 柯文哲                                                                                                                    | 三采文化    | 2014年1月17日 | 288页   | ISBN 9789862299678 |
| 《白色的力量2：改變成真：柯文哲的城市進化論》      | 柯文哲                                                                                                                    | 三采文化    | 2014年10月9日 | 272页   | ISBN 9789863422396 |
| 《白色的力量3：柯P模式：柯文哲的SOP跟你想的不一樣》 | 柯文哲                                                                                                                    | 三采文化    | 2015年11月6日 | 256页   | ISBN 9789863424703 |
| 《ECMO手冊(第二版)》                | 柯文哲、[蔡壁如](../Page/蔡壁如.md "wikilink")、賴建亨／合著                                                                            | 金名圖書    | 2016年7月1日  | 378页   | ISBN 9789865640408 |
| 《光榮城市》                       | 柯文哲                                                                                                                    | 三采文化    | 2018年6月29日 | 364页   | ISBN 4710415386243 |
| 《生死之間︰柯文哲從醫療現場到政治戰場的修練》      | 柯文哲                                                                                                                    | 商周出版公司  | 2019年8月31日 | 288页   | ISBN 9789864777075 |

# 文章

## 2010年之前

1.  （1992）Wound and Surgical suture.\[1\]
2.  （1993）Hyperglycemia and outcome of patients with severe head injuries.\[2\]
3.  （1994）A new dosing regimen for esmolol to treat supraventricular tachyarrhythmia in Chinese patients.\[3\]
4.  （1996）肝細胞球及其在移植上的應用\[4\]
5.  （1996）治療早期心臓手術後病人高血壓之注意事項：一病例報告\[5\]
6.  （1996）音樂治療對減輕心臟手術後病人加護期間壓力的效果\[6\]
7.  （1996）Efficient assembly of rat hepatocyte spheroids for tissue engineering applications.\[7\]
8.  （1997）Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in the perioperative period of heart transplantation.\[8\]
9.  （1998）Postpartum myocardial infarction rescued with an intraaortic balloon pump and extracorporeal membrane oxygenator.\[9\]
10. （1998）Stress-reducing effect of physician's tape-recorded support on cardiac surgical patients in the intensive care unit.\[10\]
11. （1999）Low incidence of transplant coronary artery disease in chinese heart recipients.\[11\]
12. （1999）Heart transplantation with marginal recipients and donors.\[12\]
13. （1999）Rescue for acute myocarditis with shock by extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.\[13\]
14. （1999）Emergent Bedside Transesophageal Echocardiography in the Resuscitation of Sudden Cardiac Arrest after Tricuspid Inflow Obstruction and Pulmonary Embolism.\[14\]
15. （2000）Combined heart transplantation and resection of dissecting aneurysm of ascending aorta and aortic arch: a case report.\[15\]
16. （2000）Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support of donor abdominal organs in non‐heart‐beating donors.\[16\]
17. （2000）Evaluation of antiseptic-impregnated central venous catheters for prevention of catheter-related infection in intensive care unit patients.\[17\]
18. （2001）Successful resuscitation of acute massive pulmonary embolism with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and open embolectomy.\[18\]
19. （2001）Preliminary result of an algorithm to select proper ventricular assist devices for high-risk patients with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support.\[19\]
20. （2001）Replacing Cardiopulmonary Bypass with Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation in Lung Transplantation Operations.\[20\]
21. （2001）Hepatitis B virus infection in heart transplant recipients in a hepatitis B endemic area.\[21\]
22. （2001）Mechanical Bridge with Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation and Ventricular Assist Device to Heart Transplantation.\[22\]
23. （2001）Application of Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation in Adult Burn Patients.\[23\]
24. （2002）Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support for adult postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock. \[24\]
25. （2002）Successful rescue of sustained ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting by extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.\[25\]
26. （2003）Analysis and results of prolonged resuscitation in cardiac arrest patients rescued by extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. \[26\]
27. （2003）Hepatic encephalopathy and cerebral blood flow improved by liver dialysis treatment.\[27\]
28. （2003）Delayed diagnosis of esophageal perforation following intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography during valvular replacement--a case report.\[28\]
29. （2007）Receding Cytochrome P450 Activity in Disassembling Hepatocyte Spheroids.\[29\]

## 2010年以后

1.  （2010）Extracoporeal membrane oxygenation to rescue cardiopulmonary failure after heart transplantation: A single-center experience.\[30\]
2.  （2010）End-stage renal disease after orthotopic heart transplantation: A single-institute experience.\[31\]
3.  （2010）Can cyclosporine blood level be reduced to half after heart transplantation?\[32\]
4.  （2010）Associations of exposure to noise with physiological and psychological outcomes among post-cardiac surgery patients in ICUs.\[33\]
5.  （2010）The survival of heart transplant recipients using cyclosporine and everolimus is not inferior to that using cyclosporine and mycophenolate.\[34\]
6.  （2010）Combined sirolimus-calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressive therapy in simultaneous heart and kidney transplantation: A retrospective analysis of a single hospital's experience.\[35\]
7.  （2010）Heart transplantation in patients with amyloidosis.\[36\]
8.  （2010）Unplanned readmission within 1 year after heart transplantation in Taiwan.\[37\]
9.  （2011）Integrated postdischarge transitional care in a hospitalist system to improve discharge outcome: An experimental study.
10. （2011）Evaluating the performance of a hospitalist system in Taiwan: A pioneer study for nationwide health insurance in Asia.
11. （2011）Extracorporeal membranous oxygenation support for acute fulminant myocarditis: Analysis of a single center's experience.
12. （2011）Further deliberating burying the dead donor rule in donation after circulatory death.
13. （2011）Preoperative proteinuria predicts adverse renal outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting.
14. （2011）Acute-on-chronic kidney injury at hospital discharge is associated with long-term dialysis and mortality.
15. （2011）Effects of simvastatin on pulmonary C-fiber sensitivity in rats with monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension.
16. （2011）Organs by firing squad: The medical and moral implausibility of death penalty organ procurement.
17. （2011）Successful extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support patients with malignancy and septic shock.
18. （2011）Impact of timing of renal replacement therapy initiation on outcome of septic acute kidney injury.
19. （2011）Caspase-14 is an anti-apoptotic protein targeting apoptosis-inducing factor in lung adenocarcinomas.
20. （2012）Effects of eritoran tetrasodium, a toll-like receptor 4 antagonist, on intestinal microcirculation in endotoxemic rats.
21. （2012）Heart retransplantation for pediatric primary allograft failure.
22. （2012）Cardiac allograft vasculopathy compared by intravascular ultrasound sonography: Everolimus to mycophenolate mofetil - One single-center experience.
23. （2012）Risk factors for 30-day readmission in general medical patients admitted from the emergency department: A single centre study.
24. （2012）Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and Thoratec pneumatic ventricular assist devices as double bridge to heart transplantation.
25. （2012）Aggressive management of massive hemothorax in patients on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
26. （2012）Kidney function decline after a non-dialysis-requiring acute kidney injury is associated with higher long-term mortality in critically ill survivors.
27. （2012）The outcome of heart transplantation in hepatitis C-positive recipients.
28. （2012）Eleven years of experience with extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation for paediatric patients with in-hospital cardiac arrest.
29. （2012）Dexmedetomidine prevents alterations of intestinal microcirculation that are induced by surgical stress and pain in a novel rat model.
30. （2012）Advanced age affects the outcome-predictive power of RIFLE classification in geriatric patients with acute kidney injury.
31. （2012）Preoperative proteinuria is associated with long-term progression to chronic dialysis and mortality after coronary artery bypass grafting surgery.
32. （2012）Twenty-four year single-center experience of hepatitis B virus infection in heart transplantation.
33. （2012）U-Curve Association between Timing of Renal Replacement Therapy Initiation and In-Hospital Mortality in Postoperative Acute Kidney Injury.
34. （2012）Clinical experience of tacrolimus with everolimus in heart transplantation.
35. （2012）Enoxaparin sodium prevents intestinal microcirculatory dysfunction in endotoxemic rats.
36. （2012）Prevalence of Acute Kidney Injury and Prognostic Significance in Patients with Acute Myocarditis.
37. （2012）Effects of fish oil on inflammatory modulation in surgical intensive care unit patients.
38. （2012）Hospital mortality of septic acute kidney injury requiring renal replacement therapy in the postoperative elderly.
39. （2012）The ICNARC model is predictive of hospital mortality in critically ill patients supported by acute dialysis.
40. （2012）The influence of the organ allocation policy on a patient's chances of undergoing heart transplantation and the posttransplantation survival rate.
41. （2012）Effect of diuretic use on 30-day postdialysis mortality in critically ill patients receiving acute dialysis.
42. （2012）Use of an endobronchial blocker as a bridge for the management of massive traumatic endobronchial haemorrhage before angiographic embolisation.
43. （2012）Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation resuscitation in diabetic ketoacidosis with hypothermic cardiocirculatory instability.
44. （2012）Ventricular assist device application as a bridge to pediatric heart transplantation: A single center's experience.
45. （2013）Demand and Predictors for Post-Discharge Medical Counseling in Home Care Patients: A Prospective Cohort Study.
46. （2013）Risk of developing severe sepsis after acute kidney injury: A population-based cohort study.
47. （2013）Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation resuscitation in adult patients with refractory septic shock.
48. （2013）In nonagenarians, acute kidney injury predicts in-hospital mortality, while heart failure predicts hospital length of stay.
49. （2013）Acute kidney injury network staging in geriatric postoperative acute kidney injury patients: Shortcomings and improvements.
50. （2013）Predicting hospital mortality in adult patients with prolonged stay .
51. （2013）Intrapleural steroid instillation for multiple organ failure with acute respiratory distress syndrome.
52. （2013）Noncancer Palliative Care: The Lost Pieces in an Acute Care Setting in Taiwan.
53. （2013）The hemodynamic effects during sustained low-efficiency dialysis versus continuous veno-venous hemofiltration for uremic patients with brain hemorrhage: A crossover study.
54. （2013）Increased Risk of Active Tuberculosis following Acute Kidney Injury: A Nationwide, Population-Based Study.
55. （2013）Survival of septic adults compared with nonseptic adults receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for cardiopulmonary failure: A propensity-matched analysis.
56. （2013）Acetyl-l-Carnitine and Oxfenicine on Cardiac Pumping Mechanics in Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetes in Male Wistar Rats.
57. （2013）Correlation between early sublingual small vessel density and late blood lactate level in critically ill surgical patients.
58. （2013）Impact of body mass on outcomes of geriatric postoperative acute kidney injury patients.
59. （2013）Airway obstruction following bronchoscopic photodynamic therapy in early centrally located lung cancer requiring extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
60. （2013）Association between professional readiness and fever and antipyretic management in physicians and nurses.
61. （2014）Multi-scale symbolic entropy analysis provides prognostic prediction in patients receiving extracorporeal life support.
62. （2014）Prevention of arterial stiffening by using low-dose atorvastatin in diabetes is associated with decreased malondialdehyde.
63. （2014）The impact of acute kidney injury on the long-term risk of stroke.
64. （2014）The impact of acute kidney injury with temporary dialysis on the risk of fracture.
65. （2014）The over-optimistic portrayal of life-supporting treatments in newspapers and on the Internet: A cross-sectional study using extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation as an example.
66. （2014）Dialysis-requiring acute kidney injury increases risk of long-term malignancy: A population-based study.
67. （2014）Patient severity matters for night-shift workload for internal medicine residents in Taiwan.
68. （2014）Current status of heart transplantation in taiwan.
69. （2014）An observational study of extracorporeal CPR for in-hospital cardiac arrest secondary to myocardial infarction.
70. （2014）To evaluate the effectiveness of health care ethics consultation based on the goals of health care ethics consultation: A prospective cohort study with randomization.
71. （2014）Biomarkers of early sepsis may be correlated with outcome.
72. （2014）Do interleukin-10 and superoxide ions predict outcomes of cardiac extracorporeal membrane oxygenation patients?
73. （2014）Hemojuvelin modulates iron stress during acute kidney injury: Improved by furin inhibitor.
74. （2014）Improved outcome of extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest - A comparison with that for extracorporeal rescue for in-hospital cardiac arrest.
75. （2014）Long-term outcomes after dialysis-requiring acute kidney injury.
76. （2014）Significant social events and increasing use of life-sustaining treatment: Trend analysis using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation as an example.
77. （2014）Heart transplantation in endstage rheumatic heart disease - Experience of an endemic area.
78. （2014）After-hours physician care for patients with do-not-resuscitate orders: An observational cohort study.
79. （2014）Laparoscopy decreases the laparotomy rate in hemodynamically stable patients with blunt abdominal trauma.
80. （2014）Long-term risk of coronary events after AKI.
81. （2014）Effect of preoperative statin therapy on postoperative acute kidney injury in patients undergoing major surgery: Systemic review and meta-analysis.
82. （2014）Acute kidney injury in the elderly: Only the tip of the iceberg.
83. （2014）When and How Should Physicians Determine the Need for Palliative and Hospice Care for Patients With End-Stage Liver Disease?: An Experience in Taiwan.
84. （2014）Why do general medical patients have a lengthy wait in the emergency department before admission?
85. （2015）Epidemiology and outcome of severe sepsis and septic shock in surgical intensive care units in northern Taiwan.
86. （2015）Efficacy of ventilator-associated pneumonia care bundle for prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia in the surgical intensive care units of a medical center.
87. （2015）Correlation Between Body Temperature and Survival Rate in Patients With Hospital-Acquired Bacteremia: A Prospective Observational Study.
88. （2015）Predicting outcome in patients under extracorporeal membrane oxygenation due to cardiogenic shock through dynamic change of lymphocytes and interleukins.
89. （2015）High risk of herpes zoster among patients with advance acute kidney injury - A population-based study.
90. （2016）Severe sepsis and septic shock: Timing of septic shock onset matters.\[38\]
91. （2016）Predictors of survival in adults undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation with severe infections.\[39\]
92. （2016）Peroxiredoxin 1 induces inflammatory cytokine response and predicts outcome of cardiogenic shock patients necessitating extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: An observational cohort study and translational approach.\[40\]
93. （2016）High mortality in severe sepsis and septic shock patients with Do-not-resuscitate orders in East Asia.\[41\]
94. （2016）Influence of patient and provider factors on the workload of on-call physicians A general internal medicine cohort observational study.\[42\]
95. （2016）Health status and quality of life of survivors of extra corporeal membrane oxygenation: a cross-sectional study.\[43\]
96. （2016）Increased flow resistance and decreased flow rate in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome: The role of autonomic nervous modulation.\[44\]
97. （2016）Pharmacokinetics of vancomycin in adults receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.\[45\]
98. （2017）Early measurement of IL-10 predicts the outcomes of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation /631/250/127 /692/53/2422 /13 /13/21 /13/31 /45/23 article.\[46\]
99. （2018）High-frequency power of heart rate variability can predict the outcome of thoracic surgical patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome on admission to the intensive care unit: A prospective, single-centric, case-controlled study.\[47\]

# 参考资料

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.