**[沙特阿拉伯王国](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/沙特阿拉伯王国 "wikilink")**位于[西亚](../Page/西亚.md "wikilink")[阿拉伯半岛上](../Page/阿拉伯半岛.md "wikilink")，西临[红海](../Page/红海.md "wikilink")，东濒[波斯湾](../Page/波斯湾.md "wikilink")，北与[科威特](../Page/科威特.md "wikilink")、[伊拉克和](../Page/伊拉克.md "wikilink")[约旦接壤](../Page/约旦.md "wikilink")，东与[卡塔尔和](../Page/卡塔尔.md "wikilink")[阿联酋相接](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/阿联酋 "wikilink")，南与[阿曼和](../Page/阿曼.md "wikilink")[也门相邻](../Page/也门.md "wikilink")，面积约214万平方千米，占整个阿拉伯半岛总面积的80%。

## External boundaries

[Saudia_Arabia_topographic_map.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Saudia_Arabia_topographic_map.jpg "fig:Saudia_Arabia_topographic_map.jpg")
[Jordan_frontiers-en.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Jordan_frontiers-en.svg "fig:Jordan_frontiers-en.svg")
(gaining red)\]\]

Saudi Arabia is bounded by seven countries and three bodies of water. To
the west, the [Gulf of
Aqaba](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulf_of_Aqaba "wikilink") and the
[Red Sea](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Sea "wikilink") form a
coastal border of almost  that extends to the southern part of Yemen and
follows a mountain ridge for approximately  to the vicinity of
[Najran](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Najran "wikilink"). This section
of the border with Yemen was demarcated in 1934 and is one of the few
clearly defined borders with a neighbouring country. The Saudi border
running southeast from Najran, however, is still undetermined. The
undemarcated border became an issue in the early 1990s, when oil was
discovered in the area and Saudi Arabia objected to the commercial
exploration by foreign companies on behalf of Yemen. In the summer of
1992, representatives of Saudi Arabia and Yemen met in Geneva to discuss
settlement of the border issue.

To the north, Saudi Arabia is bounded by
[Jordan](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jordan "wikilink"),
[Iraq](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iraq "wikilink"), and
[Kuwait](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuwait "wikilink"). The northern
boundary extends almost  from the [Gulf of
Aqaba](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulf_of_Aqaba "wikilink") on the
west to [Ras al Khafji](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khafji "wikilink")
on the [Persian
Gulf](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persian_Gulf "wikilink"). In 1965,
Saudi Arabia and Jordan agreed to boundary demarcations involving an
exchange of areas of territory. Jordan gained  of land on the Gulf of
Aqaba and 6,000 square kilometers of territory in the interior, and
7,000 square kilometers of Jordanian-administered, landlocked territory
was ceded to Jordan.\[1\]

In 1922, [Ibn Saud](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibn_Saud "wikilink")
and British officials representing Iraqi interests signed the Treaty of
Mohammara, which established the boundary between Iraq and the future
Saudi Arabia. Later that year, the [Uqair
Protocol](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uqair_Protocol "wikilink")
signed by the two parties agreed to the creation of a diamond-shaped
[Saudi Arabian–Iraqi neutral
zone](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabian–Iraqi_neutral_zone "wikilink")
of approximately 7,000 square kilometers, adjacent to the western tip of
Kuwait, within which neither Iraq nor Saudi Arabia would build permanent
dwellings or installations. The agreement was designed to safeguard
water rights in the zone for Bedouin of both countries. In May 1938,
Iraq and Saudi Arabia signed an additional agreement regarding the
administration of the zone. Forty-three years later, Saudi Arabia and
Iraq signed an agreement that defined the border between the two
countries and provided for the division of the neutral zone between
them. The agreement effectively dissolved this neutral zone.

The boundary between Ibn Saud's territories of Najd and the Eastern
Province and the British protectorate of Kuwait was first regulated by
the Al Uqair Convention in 1922. In an effort to avoid territorial
disputes, another diamond-shaped [Saudi–Kuwaiti neutral
zone](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi–Kuwaiti_neutral_zone "wikilink")
of 5,790 square kilometers directly south of Kuwait was established. In
1938 oil was discovered in Kuwait's southern Burqan fields, and both
countries contracted with foreign oil companies to perform exploration
work in the Divided Zone. After years of discussions, Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait reached an agreement in 1965 that divided the zone
geographically, with each country administering its half of the zone.
The agreement guaranteed that the rights of both parties to the natural
resources in the whole zone would continue to be respected after each
country had annexed its half of the zone in 1966.

Saudi Arabia's eastern boundary follows the Persian Gulf from Ras 'al
Khafji to the peninsula of Qatar, whose border with Saudi Arabia was
determined in 1965. The Saudi border with the state of Oman, on the
southeastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula, runs through the [Empty
Quarter](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empty_Quarter "wikilink") (Rub
'al-Khali). The border demarcation was defined by a 1990 agreement
between Saudi Arabia and Oman that included provisions for shared
[grazing
rights](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/grazing_rights "wikilink") and
[water rights](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/water_rights "wikilink").
The border through 'Al Buraymi Oasis, located near the conjunction of
the frontiers of Oman, [Abu
Dhabi](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abu_Dhabi "wikilink") (one of the
emirates of the UAE) and Saudi Arabia, has triggered extensive dispute
among the three states since the Treaty of Jeddah in 1927. In a 1975
agreement with Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi accepted sovereignty over six
villages in the 'Al Buraymi Oasis and the sharing of the rich Zararah
oil field. In return, Saudi Arabia obtained an outlet to the Persian
Gulf through Abu Dhabi.

Saudi Arabia's maritime claims include a twelve-nautical-mile (22 km)
territorial limit along its coasts. The country also claims many small
islands as well as some seabeds and subsoils beyond the
twelve-nautical-mile (22 km) limit.

**Land boundaries:**
*total:* 4,415 km
*border countries:*
[Iraq](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iraq "wikilink") 814 km,
[Jordan](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jordan "wikilink") 728 km,
[Kuwait](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuwait "wikilink") 222 km,
[Oman](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oman "wikilink") 676 km,
[Qatar](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qatar "wikilink") 60 km,
[UAE](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Arab_Emirates "wikilink")
457 km, [Yemen](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemen "wikilink")
1,458 km

**Coastline:** 2,640 km

**Maritime claims:**
*contiguous zone:*
*continental shelf:* not specified
*territorial sea:*

## Water resources

Until the 1980s, [Saudi
Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia "wikilink") had lakes
at [Layla Aflaj](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Layla_Aflaj "wikilink")
and deep waterholes at 'Al-Kharj, fed by huge underground aquifers
formed in prehistoric times and non-renewable. 'Al Kharj was a valuable
source of drinking water in a barren terrain. In recent years, these
aquifer have been drawn upon heavily, both for
[agricultural](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agriculture_in_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
and domestic purposes, and no fresh water remain in the lakes or pits.

In the absence of permanent rivers or bodies of water, streams and
groundwater, desalinated seawater and very scarce surface water must
supply the country's needs. In eastern Arabia and in the [Jabal
Tuwayq](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabal_Tuwayq "wikilink"),
[artesian](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artesian_aquifer "wikilink")
wells and springs are plentiful. In [Al
Ahsa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Hasa "wikilink") a number of
large, deep pools are constantly replenished by artesian springs as a
result of underground water from the eastern watershed of the [Jabal
Tuwayq](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabal_Tuwayq "wikilink"). Such
springs and wells permit extensive irrigation in local oases. In the
[Hijaz](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hijaz "wikilink"), wells are
abundant, and springs are common in the mountainous areas. In
[Najd](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Najd "wikilink") and the great
deserts, watering places are comparatively fewer and scattered over a
wide area. Water must be hoisted or pumped to the surface, and even
where water is plentiful, its quality may be poor.

Modern technology has located and increased the availability of much of
the underground water. [Saudi Arabian Oil
Company](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabian_Oil_Company "wikilink")
(Saudi Aramco) technicians have determined that very deep
[aquifers](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/aquifer "wikilink") lie in many
areas of northern and eastern Arabia and that the
[Wasia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wasia "wikilink"), the largest
aquifer in Saudi Arabia, contains more water than the Persian Gulf. The
Saudi government, [Saudi
Aramco](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Aramco "wikilink"), and the
United Nations (UN) Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) have made
separate and joint efforts to exploit underground water resources. In
the past, improperly drilled wells have reduced or destroyed any good
they might have served by leaching the lands they were drilled to
irrigate. Successive agricultural projects, many of which were designed
primarily to encourage Bedouin settlement, have increased water resource
exploitation. In the early 1990s, large-scale agricultural projects have
relied primarily on such underground aquifers, which provided more than
80% of the water for agricultural requirements. In fiscal year (FY)
1987, about 90% of the total water demand in the kingdom was consumed by
agriculture.

## 地形

沙特阿拉伯大部分属于高原，地势西高东低，呈阶梯状倾斜，通称[阿拉伯高原](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/阿拉伯高原 "wikilink")。西部以[汉志-阿西尔高原为主](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/汉志-阿西尔高原 "wikilink")，西北有[希法阿山](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/希法阿山 "wikilink")，西南[希贾兹山的](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/希贾兹山 "wikilink")[索达山海拔](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/索达山 "wikilink")3207米，为全国最高峰。红海沿岸的[帖哈麦](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/帖哈麦 "wikilink")（Tihāmah）地区为狭窄的沿海平原。中部为[内志高原](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/内志高原 "wikilink")。东部波斯湾沿海平原，地势低平，散布着许多盐渍地和沼泽。

沙漠约占国土面积的一半，北部[内夫得沙漠](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/内夫得沙漠 "wikilink")，多涸谷、水井、绿洲；南部[鲁卜哈利沙漠多流动](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/鲁卜哈利沙漠 "wikilink")[沙丘](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/沙丘 "wikilink")。[鲁卜哈利沙漠约占阿拉伯半岛的四分之一](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/鲁卜哈利沙漠 "wikilink")。东部有[代赫纳沙漠](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/代赫纳沙漠 "wikilink")。

## 气候

西部高原属[地中海型气候](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/地中海型气候 "wikilink"),其他广大地区属[热带沙漠气候](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/热带沙漠气候 "wikilink")。炎热干燥，最热月绝对高温可达50℃。北部年降水量100～200毫米，南部在100毫米以下。
The **climate of [Saudi
Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")** is
marked by high temperatures during the day and low temperatures at
night. The country follows the pattern of the [desert
climate](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/desert_climate "wikilink"), with
the exception of the southwest, which features a [semi-arid
climate](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/semi-arid_climate "wikilink").

## See also

  - [Effects of global
    warming](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Effects_of_global_warming "wikilink")

## References

## 河流湖泊

地面无常年有水的河流、湖泊。地势低洼处，地下水涌出地面形成[绿洲](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/绿洲 "wikilink")。

## 自然區域

### Hejaz

[Saudi-desert.gif](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Saudi-desert.gif "fig:Saudi-desert.gif")
escarpment from the west.\]\]
[Harrat_Al_Birk,_Saudi_Arabia.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Harrat_Al_Birk,_Saudi_Arabia.jpg "fig:Harrat_Al_Birk,_Saudi_Arabia.jpg")
volcanic field.\]\] The western coastal escarpment can be considered two
mountain ranges separated by a gap in the vicinity of
[Mecca](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mecca "wikilink") in Tihamah. The
northern range in the Hejaz seldom exceeds 2,100 meters, and the
elevation gradually decreases toward the south to about 600 meters. The
rugged mountain wall drops abruptly to the sea with only a few
intermittent coastal plains. There are virtually no natural harbors
along the Red Sea. The western slopes have been stripped of soil by the
erosion of infrequent but turbulent rainfalls that have fertilized the
plains to the west. The eastern slopes are less steep and are marked by
dry river beds ([wadis](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/wadi "wikilink"))
that trace the courses of ancient rivers and continue to lead the rare
rainfalls down to the plains. Scattered oases, drawing water from
springs and wells in the vicinity of the wadis, permit some settled
agriculture. Of these oases, the largest and most important is
[Medina](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medina "wikilink"). South of
Hejaz, the mountains exceed 2,400 meters in several places with some
peaks nearing 3,000 meters. The eastern slope of the mountain range in
Asir is gentle, melding into a plateau region that drops gradually into
the Rub al Khali. Although rainfall is infrequent in this area, a number
of fertile wadis, of which the most important are the Wadi Bishah and
the Wadi Tathlith, make oasis agriculture possible on a relatively large
scale. A number of extensive lava fields (harrat) scar the surfaces of
the plateaus east of the mountain ranges in the Hijaz and give evidence
of fairly recent volcanic activity. The largest of these beds is
Khaybar, north of Medina; another is [Al
Harrah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Harrah,_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink"),
part of the large volcanic field [Harrat Ash
Shamah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harrat_Ash_Shamah "wikilink").
Famous cities of Hejaz include the holy city of
[Medina](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medina "wikilink") and the city
of [Taif](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taif "wikilink").\[2\]

### Tihamah

The rugged western face of the escarpment drops steeply to the coastal
plain, the [Tihamah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tihamah "wikilink")
lowlands, whose width averages only sixty-five kilometers. Along the
seacoast is a salty tidal plain of limited agricultural value, backed by
potentially rich alluvial plains. The relatively well-watered and
fertile upper slopes and the mountains behind are extensively terraced
to allow maximum land use. This coastal plain is part of the [Arabian
Peninsula coastal fog
desert](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabian_Peninsula_coastal_fog_desert "wikilink")
[ecoregion](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ecoregion "wikilink"). Both
the holy city of Mecca and the city of Jeddah lie within the northern
part of Tihamah.\[3\]

### Najd

East of the Hejaz and Asir lies the great plateau area of
[Najd](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Najd "wikilink"). This region is
mainly rocky plateau interspersed by small, sandy deserts and isolated
mountain clumps. The best known of the mountain groups is the Jabal
Shammar, northwest of Riyadh and just south of the An Nafud. This area
is the home of the pastoral
[Shammar](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shammar "wikilink") tribes,
which under the leadership of the [Al
Rashid](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rashidi_dynasty "wikilink") were
the most implacable foes of the Al Saud in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries. Their capital was the large oasis of
[Hail](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha'il "wikilink"), now a
flourishing urban center.

Across the peninsula as a whole, the plateau slopes toward the east from
an elevation of 1,360 meters in the west to 750 meters at its
easternmost limit. A number of
[wadis](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/wadis "wikilink") cross the region
in an eastward direction from the Red Sea escarpment toward the Persian
Gulf. There is little pattern to these remains of ancient riverbeds; the
most important of them are [Wadi
Hanifa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wadi_Hanifa "wikilink"), [Wadi ar
Rummah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wadi_ar_Rummah "wikilink"), Wadi
as Surr, and [Wadi
ad-Dawasir](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wadi_ad-Dawasir "wikilink").

The heart of Najd is the area of the [Jabal
Tuwayq](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabal_Tuwayq "wikilink"), an
arc-shaped ridge with a steep west face that rises between 100 and 250
meters above the plateau. Many oases exist in this area, the most
important of which are
[Buraydah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buraydah "wikilink"),
[Unayzah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unayzah "wikilink"),
[Riyadh](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riyadh "wikilink"), and [Al
Kharj](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Kharj "wikilink"). Outside the
oasis areas, Najd is sparsely populated. Large salt marshes (sabkah) are
scattered throughout the area.

### Northern Arabia

The area north of the An Nafud is geographically part of the [Syrian
Desert](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syrian_Desert "wikilink"). It is
an upland plateau scored by numerous wadis, most tending northeastward
toward [Iraq](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iraq "wikilink"). This area,
known as Badiyat ash Sham, and covered with grass and scrub vegetation,
is extensively used for pasture by nomadic and seminomadic herders. The
most significant feature of the area is the Wadi as Sirhan, a large
basin as much as 300 meters below the surrounding plateau, which is the
vestige of an ancient inland sea. For thousands of years, some of the
heavily traveled caravan routes between the
[Mediterranean](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mediterranean "wikilink")
and the central and southern peninsula have passed through the Wadi as
Sirhan. The most important oases in the area are Al Jawf and Sakakah,
just north of the An Nafud.

### Eastern Arabia

East of the Ad Dahna lies the As Summen Plateau, about 120 kilometers
wide and dropping in elevation from about 400 meters in the west to
about 240 meters in the east. The area is generally barren, with a
highly eroded surface of ancient river gorges and isolated buttes.

Farther east the terrain changes abruptly to the flat lowlands of the
coastal plain. This area, about sixty kilometers wide, is generally
featureless and covered with gravel or sand. In the north is the Ad
Dibdibah graveled plain and in the south the 'Al Jafurah sand desert,
which reaches the gulf near Dhahran and merges with the Rub al Khali at
its southern end. The coast itself is extremely irregular, merging sandy
plains, marshes, and salt flats almost imperceptibly with the sea. As a
result, the land surface is unstable; in places water rises almost to
the surface, and the sea is shallow, with shoals and reefs extending far
offshore. Only the construction of long
[moles](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mole_\(architecture\) "wikilink")
at Ras Tanura has opened the Saudi coast on the gulf to seagoing
tankers.

Eastern Arabia is sometimes called
'[Al-Hasa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Hasa "wikilink"), or 'Al
Ahsa after the great oasis, one of the more fertile areas of the
country. 'Al-Hasa, the largest oasis in the country, actually comprises
two neighbouring oases, including the town of
Al-[Hofuf](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hofuf "wikilink").

### Great deserts

Three great deserts isolate the great plateau area Najd of Saudi Arabia
from the north, east, and south, as the Red Sea escarpment does from the
west. In the north, the [An
Nafud](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Nafud "wikilink")—sometimes
called the Great Nafud because An Nafud is the term for desert—covers
about 55,000 square kilometers at an elevation of about 1,000 meters.
Longitudinal dunes—scores of kilometers in length and as much as ninety
meters high, and separated by valleys as much as sixteen kilometers
wide—characterize the An Nafud. Iron oxide gives the sand a red tint,
particularly when the sun is low. Within the area are several watering
places, and winter rains bring up short-lived but succulent grasses that
permit nomadic herding during the winter and spring.

Stretching more than 125 kilometers south from the An Nafud in a narrow
arc is the [ad-Dahna
desert](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ad-Dahna_desert "wikilink"), a
narrow band of sand mountains also called the river of sand. Like the An
Nafud, its sand tends to be reddish, particularly in the north, where it
shares with the An Nafud the longitudinal structure of sand dunes. The
Ad Dahna also furnishes the Bedouin with winter and spring pasture,
although water is scarcer than in the An Nafud.

The southern portion of the Ad Dahna curves westward following the arc
of the Jabal Tuwayq. At its southern end, it merges with the [Rub' al
Khali](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rub'_al_Khali "wikilink"), one of
the truly forbidding sand deserts in the world and, until the 1950s, one
of the least explored. The topography of this huge area, covering more
than 550,000 square kilometers, is varied. In the west, the elevation is
about 600 meters, and the sand is fine and soft; in the east, the
elevation drops to about 180 meters, and much of the surface is covered
by relatively stable sand sheets and salt flats. In places, particularly
in the east, longitudinal sand dunes prevail; elsewhere sand mountains
as much as 300 meters in height form complex patterns. Most of the area
is totally waterless and uninhabited except for the few wandering
[Bedouin](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bedouin "wikilink") tribes.

## Caves

Beneath the harsh deserts of Saudi Arabia lie dark chambers and complex
mazes filled with
[crystalline](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/crystalline "wikilink")
structures,
[stalactites](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/stalactites "wikilink") and
[stalagmites](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/stalagmites "wikilink"). The
limestone floor of the Summan plateau, a
[karst](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/karst "wikilink") area to the east
of the [Dahna
sands](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ad-Dahna_Desert "wikilink"), is
riddled with such caves, known locally as *Dahls*. Some have tiny
entrances which open into caves, others lead into a maze of passages
which can be several kilometers long. Local
[Bedouin](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bedouin "wikilink") have long
known of these caves and some were used as water supplies. They were
first systematically studied in 1981, and later explored and reported by
the [Saudi Geological
Survey](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Geological_Survey "wikilink").

## The environment and the Gulf War

The [Persian Gulf
War](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persian_Gulf_War "wikilink") of 1991
brought serious environmental damage to the region. The world's largest
oil spill, estimated at as much as , fouled gulf waters and the coastal
areas of Kuwait, Iran, and much of Saudi Arabia's Persian Gulf
shoreline. In some of the sections of the Saudi coast that sustained the
worst damage, sediments were found to contain 7% oil. The shallow areas
affected normally provide feeding grounds for birds, and feeding and
nursery areas for fish and shrimp. Because the plants and animals of the
sea floor are the basis of the food chain, damage to the shoreline has
consequences for the whole shallow-water ecosystem, including the
multimillion-dollar Saudi fisheries industry.

The spill had a severe impact on the coastal area surrounding Madinat
'al-Jubayl as Sinaiyah, the major industrial and population center newly
planned and built by the Saudi government. The spill threatened
industrial facilities in 'Al Jubayl because of the seawater cooling
system for primary industries and threatened the supply of potable water
produced by seawater-fed desalination plants. The 'Al Jubayl community
harbor and Abu Ali Island, which juts into the gulf immediately north of
'Al Jubayl, experienced the greatest pollution, with the main effect of
the spill concentrated in mangrove areas and shrimp grounds. Large
numbers of marine birds, such as cormorants, grebes, and auks, were
killed when their plumage was coated with oil. In addition, beaches
along the entire 'Al Jubayl coastline were covered with oil and tar
balls.

The exploding and burning of approximately 700 oil wells in Kuwait also
created staggering levels of atmospheric pollution, spewed oily soot
into the surrounding areas, and produced lakes of oil in the Kuwaiti
desert equal in volume to twenty times the amount of oil that poured
into the gulf, or about . The soot from the Kuwaiti fires was found in
the snows of the Himalayas and in rainfall over the southern members of
the Community of Independent States, Iran, Oman, and Turkey. Residents
of Riyadh reported that cars and outdoor furniture were covered daily
with a coating of oily soot. The ultimate effects of the airborne
pollution from the burning wells have yet to be determined, but samples
of soil and vegetation in Ras al Khafji in northern Saudi Arabia
revealed high levels of particles of oily soot incorporated into the
desert ecology. The UN Environmental Programme warned that eating
livestock that grazed within an area of 7,000 square kilometers of the
fires, or 1,100 kilometers from the center of the fires, an area that
included northern Saudi Arabia, posed a danger to human health. The
overall effects of the oil spill and the oil fires on marine life, human
health, water quality, and vegetation remained to be determined as of
1992. Moreover, to these two major sources of environmental damage must
be added large quantities of refuse, toxic materials, and between 173
million and 207 million liters of untreated sewage in sand pits left
behind by coalition forces.

**Natural hazards:** frequent sand and dust storms

**Environment - current issues:** desertification; depletion of ground
water resources; the lack of perennial rivers or permanent water bodies
has prompted the development of extensive seawater desalination
facilities; coastal pollution from oil spills

**Environment - international agreements:**
*party to:* [Climate
Change](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Framework_Convention_on_Climate_Change "wikilink"),
[Desertification](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desertification "wikilink"),
[Endangered
Species](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endangered_Species "wikilink"),
[Hazardous
Wastes](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hazardous_Wastes "wikilink"), [Law
of the Sea](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_the_Sea "wikilink"),
[Ozone Layer
Protection](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ozone_Layer_Protection "wikilink")

[Al_Sawda_peak.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Al_Sawda_peak.jpg "fig:Al_Sawda_peak.jpg")
of the [Asir
Mountains](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asir_Mountains "wikilink") was
thought to be the highest mountain in the country\[4\]\[5\]\]\] Saudi
Arabia has a range of mountains, the [Sarawat or Sarat
Mountains](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarawat_Mountains "wikilink"),
which run parallel with the Red Sea coast. These are low at the northern
end, have a gap in the middle between
[Medina](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medina "wikilink") and
[Ta'if](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ta'if "wikilink"), and are higher
at the southern end, where [Mount
Sawda](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabal_Sawda "wikilink") in the
[Asir
Mountains](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asir_Mountains "wikilink"), at
just over  is the highest point in Saudi Arabia.\[6\]\[7\] Between these
mountains and the Red Sea is a coastal plain known as
[Tihamah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tihamah "wikilink"). The west
side of this range is a steep escarpment but to the east is a wide
plateau called the [Najd](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Najd "wikilink")
which is bounded on the east by a series of mountain ridges, including
the [Ṭuwayq Mountains](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuwaiq "wikilink"),
east of which the land descends gradually to the Persian Gulf.\[8\]

[Saudi_Arabia_Topography.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Saudi_Arabia_Topography.png "fig:Saudi_Arabia_Topography.png")
The **wildlife of Saudi Arabia** is substantial and varied. [Saudi
Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia "wikilink") is a very
large country forming the bulk of the [Arabian
Peninsula](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabian_Peninsula "wikilink").
It has several geographic regions, each with a diversity of plants and
animals adapted to their own particular habitats. As well as high
mountains and deserts, there is a coastal plain and long coastline on
the [Gulf of
Aqaba](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulf_of_Aqaba "wikilink") and the
[Red Sea](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Sea "wikilink") to the west
and a rather shorter coastline on the [Persian
Gulf](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persian_Gulf "wikilink") to the
east.

In the south of the country is the [Rub' al
Khali](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rub'_al_Khali "wikilink"), or
"Empty Quarter", the largest contiguous sand desert in the world. It
slopes from about  near the Yemeni border, northwestwards nearly to the
Persian Gulf. Another sandy desert, the
[Nefud](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/An_Nafud "wikilink"), lies in the
north central part of Saudi Arabia, and it is connected to the Rub' al
Khali by a broad swathe of sand dunes and gravel plains known as
[Dahna](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ad-Dahna_Desert "wikilink"). Most
of the country has very little precipitation, less than  in many
regions, and in the Rub' al Khali there may be no rain for a decade. The
mountainous region of
[Asir](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/'Asir_Region "wikilink") in the
southwest is wetter; it receives monsoon rains between May and October
which may amount to .\[9\]

The northern [Ha'il
Region](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha'il_Region "wikilink") has the
[Shammar
Mountains](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shammar_Mountains "wikilink"),
further divisible into the Aja and
[Salma](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salma_Mountains "wikilink")
subranges.\[10\]\[11\]

The Red Sea was formed when in the
[Eocene](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eocene "wikilink") period, the
Arabian Peninsula began to move away from the continent of Africa. This
prevented further exchange of genes between African and Arabian species.
Furthermore, the late
[Tertiary](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tertiary "wikilink") and the
early [Quaternary](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quaternary "wikilink")
eras saw a period of climatic cooling that drove vegetation bands
southwards, and the Arabian Peninsula received an influx of species from
Eurasia. With increasing aridity, conditions became inimical for many of
these and they retreated to the damper, southwestern mountainous
regions, becoming [relict
populations](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relict_\(biology\) "wikilink").\[12\]

## Flora

Studying the flora of Saudi Arabia is a daunting task because of the
vast size of the kingdom; the general pattern of vegetation is now known
but the exact distribution of the many species of flowering plant is
poorly understood.\[13\] Almost 3,500 species of plant have been
recorded in the country, with nearly 1,000 species known from the
southwestern region of Asir with its higher rainfall.\[14\] Plants in
general are
[xerophytic](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xerophyte "wikilink") and
mostly dwarf shrubs or small herbs. There are few species of tree but
[date palms](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/date_palm "wikilink") are
abundant in places.\[15\]

[Khejri.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Khejri.jpg "fig:Khejri.jpg")''
grows around the fringes of deserts.\]\] The east of Saudi Arabia often
receives "Mediterranean depressions" from November onwards. The arrival
of sufficient quantities of rain causes [perennial
plants](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/perennial_plant "wikilink") to
produce new shoots and the seeds of [annual
plants](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/annual_plant "wikilink") to
[germinate](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Germination "wikilink"). These
annuals grow with great rapidity and complete their [life
cycle](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_life_cycle "wikilink")
within a few weeks. By April or May, the annuals will have flowered, set
seeds and died, and the perennials returned to a state of
[dormancy](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/dormancy "wikilink").\[16\]

In desert areas, plant growth is mostly confined to depressions or
wadis, though some plants with deep rooting-systems grow
elsewhere.\[17\] The Rub' al Khali desert has very little plant
diversity, with about 37 species of flowering plant having been recorded
here, 17 of which are only found around the periphery of the desert.
There are virtually no trees, and the plants are adapted for desert life
and include dwarf shrubs such as *[Calligonum
crinitum](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calligonum "wikilink")* and
[saltbush](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornulaca_monacantha "wikilink"),
and several species of
[sedge](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyperaceae "wikilink").\[18\]
Around the margins of this desert are open woodlands with
*[Acacia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acacia "wikilink")* and
*[Prosopis
cineraria](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prosopis_cineraria "wikilink")*.\[19\]

The Asir Mountains in the southwest of the country, and most of the
western highlands of Yemen, support a distinct flora which has
affinities with parts of East Africa. The highest parts are clothed with
[cloud forests](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/cloud_forest "wikilink"),
[southwestern Arabian montane
woodlands](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/southwestern_Arabian_montane_woodlands "wikilink")
which includes, on north-facing slopes, *[Juniperus
procera](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juniperus_procera "wikilink")*
and *[Euryops
arabicus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euryops_arabicus "wikilink")*,
draped with the
[lichen](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/lichen "wikilink") *[Usnea
articulata](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usnea_articulata "wikilink")*,
and on south-facing slopes, dwarf shrubs such as *[Rubus
petitianus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubus_petitianus "wikilink")*,
*[Rosa
abyssinica](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosa_abyssinica "wikilink")*,
*[Alchemilla
crytantha](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alchemilla_crytantha "wikilink")*,
*[Senecio](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senecio "wikilink")* and
*[Helichrysum
abyssinicum](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helichrysum_abyssinicum "wikilink")*,
with *[Aloe sabae](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aloe_sabae "wikilink")*
and *[Euphorbia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euphorbia "wikilink")* in
the driest locations. Lower down, below about , there is evergreen
woodland and scrub dominated by *[Olea europaea subsp.
cuspidata](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olea_europaea_subsp._cuspidata "wikilink")*
and *[Tarchonanthus
camphoratus](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarchonanthus_camphoratus "wikilink")*.
Below about  the vegetation is deciduous scrubland with
*[Acacia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acacia "wikilink")*,
*[Commiphora](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commiphora "wikilink")*,
*[Grewia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grewia "wikilink")* and
succulent plants.\[20\]

In Ha'il Region is located [Jabal Aja Protected
Area](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabal_Aja_Protected_Area "wikilink"),
which is noted for its flora, is located in the area of the Aja
Mountains.\[21\]

## Fauna

[Hamadryas_Baboon_Harem_(8083155899).jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Hamadryas_Baboon_Harem_\(8083155899\).jpg "fig:Hamadryas_Baboon_Harem_(8083155899).jpg")s
in the [Hijaz
Mountains](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hijaz_Mountains "wikilink")
near [Al Hada](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Hada "wikilink"),
[Makkah
Province](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Makkah_Region "wikilink"),
[Hejaz](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hejaz "wikilink")\]\]

The fauna of Saudi Arabia has been better studied than the flora, not
least because of interest in the larger mammals for the purpose of
hunting and shooting. Birds and butterflies have also been studied, but
less is known about other parts of the animal kingdom.\[22\] Some of the
larger mammals found here include the
[Dromedary](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dromedary "wikilink") camel,
the Arabian [tahr](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/tahr "wikilink"), the
[Arabian wolf](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabian_wolf "wikilink"),
the Arabian [red fox](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/red_fox "wikilink")
and [fennec](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fennec_fox "wikilink"), the
[caracal](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/caracal "wikilink"), the
[striped hyena](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/striped_hyena "wikilink"),
the [sand cat](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/sand_cat "wikilink"), the
[rock hyrax](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/rock_hyrax "wikilink"), and
the [Cape
hare](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cape_hare "wikilink").\[23\] However
habitat destruction, hunting, off-road driving and other human
activities have led to the local extinction of the striped hyena, the
[golden jackal](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/golden_jackal "wikilink")
and the [honey
badger](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/honey_badger "wikilink") in some
localities.\[24\] The Asir Mountains in the southwest of the country is
where the critically endangered [Arabian
leopard](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabian_leopard "wikilink") is
still to be found, and the broader region is also home to the [hamadryas
baboon](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/hamadryas_baboon "wikilink") with
colonies reaching as far north as
[Baha](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Bahah_Region "wikilink"),
[Taif](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taif "wikilink"), and the suburbs
south of [Mecca](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mecca "wikilink").\[25\]

The [Arabian
oryx](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabian_oryx "wikilink") used to
roam over Saudi Arabia's deserts and much of the Middle East but by
1970, it had been hunted to
[extinction](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/extinction "wikilink") in the
wild. However, a [captive
breeding](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/captive_breeding "wikilink")
programme had been initiated at the [Phoenix
Zoo](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoenix_Zoo "wikilink") in the United
States in the 1960s and the oryx has since been successfully
reintroduced into the wild in the [Mahazat as-Sayd Protected
Area](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahazat_as-Sayd_Protected_Area "wikilink")
in Saudi Arabia, a fenced reserve of over .\[26\] It is also now present
in the ['Uruq Bani
Ma'arid](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/'Uruq_Bani_Ma'arid "wikilink")
protected area, where the [goitered
gazelle](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/goitered_gazelle "wikilink") and
[mountain
gazelle](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/mountain_gazelle "wikilink") are
also to be found.\[27\]

The sand cat, which is the only member of the cat family to live
exclusively in deserts, can be found in the western region of Saudi
Arabia. Its paws are covered with thick hair to protect it from the hot
ground, but it is chiefly nocturnal. However, in Najd and Tabuk, the
Arabian wolf can be found. It is a solitary hunter and is persecuted by
livestock ownerss. Only 2000 to 3000 animals are left in the wild, and
accordingly they are considered as “endangered” animals.\[28\]

Birds native to Saudi Arabia include
[sandgrouse](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/sandgrouse "wikilink"),
[quails](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/quail "wikilink"),
[eagles](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/eagle "wikilink"),
[buzzards](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/buzzard "wikilink") and
[larks](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/lark "wikilink") and on the coast,
seabirds include
[pelicans](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/pelican "wikilink") and
[gulls](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/gull "wikilink"). The country is
also visited by [migratory
birds](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bird_migration "wikilink") in
spring and autumn including flamingoes, storks and swallows.\[29\]
[MacQueen's
bustard](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacQueen's_bustard "wikilink") is
a resident species that is dependent on good vegetation cover, often
being found in areas with dense scrubby growth with shrubs such as
*[Capparis
spinosa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caper "wikilink")*.\[30\] The
cliff faces of the Asir Mountains provide habitat for the [griffon
vulture](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/griffon_vulture "wikilink"), the
[Verreaux's
eagle](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verreaux's_eagle "wikilink") and
the small [Barbary
falcon](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbary_falcon "wikilink"), and
the juniper woodlands are home to the [Yemen
linnet](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemen_linnet "wikilink"), the
[Yemen thrush](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemen_thrush "wikilink"),
the [Yemen
warbler](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemen_warbler "wikilink") and the
[African paradise
flycatcher](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_paradise_flycatcher "wikilink").
The [hamerkop](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/hamerkop "wikilink") nests
in the [Wadi Turabah Nature
Reserve](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wadi_Turabah_Nature_Reserve "wikilink"),
the only place on the Arabian Peninsula at which it is found.\[31\]

### Extinct

The [lion](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asiatic_lion "wikilink"),\[32\]
[cheetah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asiatic_cheetah "wikilink"),\[33\]
and [Syrian wild
ass](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syrian_wild_ass "wikilink")\[34\]
used to occur here, as evidenced by
[Islamic](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam "wikilink") texts. For
example, there is a
[hadith](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/hadith "wikilink") in [Muwatta’
Imam
Malik](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muwatta’_Imam_Malik "wikilink")
about [Muslim Pilgrims](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hajj "wikilink")
having to beware of the *asad* (lion) and *fahd* (cheetah) in the land,
besides other animals.\[35\] The country's last known cheetahs were
killed near [Ha'il](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha'il "wikilink") in
1973. The lion reportedly became extinct in the middle of the [19th
century](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/19th_century "wikilink").\[36\]

## See also

  - [List of birds of Saudi
    Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_birds_of_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
  - [List of mammals of Saudi
    Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mammals_of_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")

## References

## Statistics

**Area:**

2,250,000 km² (international borders of Saudi Arabia are not finalized.
Saudi government claim large tracts of land inside the neighboring
countries of [Yemen](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemen "wikilink"),
[Oman](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oman "wikilink") and
[U.A.E.](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.A.E. "wikilink") in addition to
others. The present figure for the size of that states includes all
those territories that are outside Saudi control)
*Land:* 2,250,000 km²
*Water:* 0 km²

**Land use:**
*Arable land:* 1.8%
*Permanent crops:* 0%
*Permanent pastures:* 56%
*Forests and Woodland:* 0%
*Other:* 42%

**Irrigated land:** 4,350 km²

## See also

  - [Saudi Arabia – United Arab Emirates border
    dispute](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia_–_United_Arab_Emirates_border_dispute "wikilink")
  - [Saudi–Kuwaiti neutral
    zone](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi–Kuwaiti_neutral_zone "wikilink")
  - [Saudi–Iraqi neutral
    zone](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi–Iraqi_neutral_zone "wikilink")
  - [List of mountains in Saudi
    Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mountains_in_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
  - [List of volcanoes in Saudi
    Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_volcanoes_in_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
  - [List of wadis of Saudi
    Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_wadis_of_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
  - [Sykes–Picot
    Agreement](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sykes–Picot_Agreement "wikilink")
  - [Winston's
    Hiccup](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winston's_Hiccup "wikilink")

## References

  -
  -
## Further reading

  - [Saudi Arabia - The
    Geology](http://www.thefreelibrary.com/SAUDI+ARABIA+-+The+Geology.-a079121626)
  - Andrew Thompson, *Origins of Arabia*, 2000,
  - [Geological
    Charts](https://web.archive.org/web/20080828190650/http://www.stratigraphy.org/ga_charts.htm)
    at Arabian Plate Sequence Stratigraphy, 2004.

## 参考资料

  - [新华网：沙特阿拉伯概况](http://news.xinhuanet.com/ziliao/2002-06/18/content_445928.htm)
  - [中国驻沙特阿拉伯使馆经商参处：沙特阿拉伯的地理环境](http://sa.mofcom.gov.cn/accessory/201007/1279106277488.pdf)
  - [www.britannica.com](http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/525348/Saudi-Arabia)

[bn:সৌদি
আরব\#ভূগোল](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/bn:সৌদি_আরব#ভূগোল "wikilink")

[Category:Environment_of_Saudi_Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Environment_of_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
[Category:Climate_by_country](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Climate_by_country "wikilink")
[Category:Saudi_Arabia_articles_needing_attention](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Saudi_Arabia_articles_needing_attention "wikilink")
[Category:Wildlife_by_country](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wildlife_by_country "wikilink")
[Category:Biota_of_Saudi_Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Biota_of_Saudi_Arabia "wikilink")
[Category:沙特阿拉伯地理](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:沙特阿拉伯地理 "wikilink")

1.

2.  Yaqut al-Hamawi, Mu'jam Al-Buldan, vol. 2, p. 219

3.
4.
5.
6.

7.

8.

9.
10.

11.

12.
13.

14.

15.
16.

17.

18.

19.
20.

21.

22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

29.

30.

31.
32.

33.

34.

35. [Muwatta’ Imam
    Malik](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muwatta’_Imam_Malik "wikilink"),
    Book 20 ([Hajj](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hajj "wikilink")),
    Hadith 794

36.