**猶太人大屠殺否定論**包括一系列关于[二战时针对](../Page/二战.md "wikilink")[犹太人的](../Page/犹太人.md "wikilink")[种族灭绝的主张](../Page/种族灭绝.md "wikilink")，\[1\]认为它没有发生过，在方式和范围上并不像一般所认为的那么大。

这些主张的基础是否认以下内容中的任意一点：[纳粹德国提出过灭绝犹太人的](../Page/纳粹德国.md "wikilink")[最终解决方案](../Page/最终解决方案.md "wikilink")；五百万以上的犹太人被纳粹及其盟军系统性的处决；屠杀发生在[灭绝营](../Page/灭绝营.md "wikilink")，是以[毒气室之类的大量屠杀工具执行的](../Page/毒气室.md "wikilink")。

## 脚注

## 参考资料

<div class="references-small">

### About Holocaust denial

  - Richard J. Evans, *In Defense of History*, New York: Norton, 1999.

  - Richard J. Evans, *Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the
    David Irving Trial,* Basic Books, 2002 (ISBN 0-465-02153-0). As well
    as the story of the Irving case, this is an excellent case study on
    historical research.

  - Charles Gray, *The Irving Judgment*, Penguin, 2000 (ISBN
    0-14-029899-1). Actual text of the judgment in the Irving case.

  - D.D.Guttenplan, *The Holocaust on Trial*, Norton 2002

  - Deborah Lipstadt, *Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on
    Truth and Memory*, Plume (The Penguin Group), 1994. Debunking
    Holocaust revisionism.

  - Donald L. Niewyk, ed. "The Holocaust: Problems and Perspectives of
    Interpretation", [D.C. Heath and
    Company](../Page/D.C._Heath_and_Company.md "wikilink"), 1992.

  - [Robert Jan van Pelt](../Page/Robert_Jan_van_Pelt.md "wikilink"),
    The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial (ISBN
    0-253-34016-0).

  - Michael Shermer and Alex Grobman, "[Denying History: Who Says the
    Holocaust Never Happened and Why Do They Say
    It?](../Page/Denying_History:_Who_Says_the_Holocaust_Never_Happened_and_Why_Do_They_Say_It?.md "wikilink")"
    University of California Press (ISBN 0-520-23469-3).

  - Michael Shermer, "[Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience,
    Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our
    Time](../Page/Why_People_Believe_Weird_Things:_Pseudoscience,_Superstition,_and_Other_Confusions_of_Our_Time.md "wikilink")",
    Freeman, New York 1997 (ISBN 0-8050-7089-3).

  - Michael Shermer, “Holocaust Revisionism Update: David Cole
    Recants/David Irving Says Churchill Knew About Pearl Harbor.”
    Skeptic 6, no. 1 (1998): 23–25

  - [Mr. Death](../Page/Fred_Leuchter#Mr._Death.md "wikilink"), a
    documentary by Errol Morris.

  - ["Syrian Holocaust
    Denial"](http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/anti-semitism/syrdenial.html)
    by Mohammad Daoud, *Syria Times* September 6, 2000. Retrieved
    November 8, 2005.

  - ["Anti-Semitism and Holocaust Denial in the Iranian
    Media"](https://web.archive.org/web/20060802010555/http://memri.org/bin/articles.cgi?Page=countries&Area=iran&ID=SP85505)
    MEMRI Special Dispatch Series no 855, January 28, 2005. Retrieved
    November 8, 2005.

  - ["Palestinian Holocaust
    Denial"](https://web.archive.org/web/20061023044146/http://www.ict.org.il/articles/articledet.cfm?articleid=108)
    Reuven Paz, *Peacewatch* April 21, 2000. Retrieved November 8, 2005.

  - Abbot A., "Holocaust Denial Research Disclaimed", Nature, 368, 1994

  - John C. Zimmerman, "Holocaust denial: demographics, testimonies, and
    ideologies" Lanham, Md., University Press of America, 2000.

  - John C. Zimmerman, “Holocaust Denial.” Los Angeles Times, January
    16, 2000, M4

  - [Jean Claude Pressac](../Page/Jean_Claude_Pressac.md "wikilink"):
    "Les carences et incohérences du Rapport Leuchter" «Jour J., la
    lettre télégraphique juive», 12 Décembre 1988.

  - [Jean Claude Pressac, "Auschwitz: Technique and operation of the gas
    chambers", The Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, New
    York 1989](https://web.archive.org/web/20070211134108/http://www.holocaust-history.org/auschwitz/pressac/technique-and-operation/)

  - Jean Claude Pressac "Les Crématoires d’Auschwitz: La Machinerie Du
    Meurtre De Masse", CNRS editions, Paris, 1993.

  - Pierre Vidal-Naquet, "Les assassins de la mémoire", *Un Eichman de
    papier*, Postface de Gisèle Sapiro, Nouvelle édition revue et
    augmentée, La Découverte, Paris, 2005, ISBN 2-7071-4545-9.

  - Pierre Vidal-Naquet, "Qui sont les assassins de la mémoire?" in
    "Réflexions sur le génocide. Les juifs, la mémoire et le présent",
    tome III. La Découverte 1995.

  - Brigitte Bailer-Galanda, Wilhelm Lasek, "Amoklauf gegen die
    Wirklichkeit. NS-Verbrechen und revisionistische
    Geschichtsschreibung". Wien, 1992.

  - George Wellers, "A propos du «Rapport Leuchter» et les chambres à
    gaz d’Auschwitz", "Le Monde Juif", 134, 1989.

  - Till Bastian, "Auschwitz und die «Auschwitz-Lüge»". Massenmord und
    Geschichtsfälschung", Beck’sche Reihe München, 1994.

  - Francesco Germinario, "Estranei alla democrazia. Negazionismo e
    antisemitismo nella destra radicale italiana" BFS Editore, Pisa,
    2001.

  - Francesco Rotondi,"Luna di miele ad Auschwitz. Riflessioni sul
    negazionismo della Shoah", Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, Napoli,
    2005.

  - Flores M., *Storia, Verità e Giustizia*, Mondadori, Milano, 2001.

  - Valentina Pisanty, "L’irritante questione delle camere a gas. Logica
    del negazionismo", Bompiani, Milano, 1998.

  - Ted Gottfried, "Deniers of the Holocaust: Who They Are, What They
    Do, Why They Do It", Brookfield Conn Twenty-First Century Books,
    2001.

  - Henry Rousso, "Le dossier Lyon III: le rapport sur le racisme et le
    négationnisme à l’université Jean-Moulin", Paris, 2004.

  - Nadine Fresco "Les redresseurs de morts. Chambres à gaz: la bonne
    nouvelle. Comment on révise l'histoire", "Les Temps Modernes", 407,
    Juin 1980.

  - Nadine Fresco, "The Denial of the Dead On the Faurisson Affair"
    1981.

  - Georges Bensoussan "Négationnisme et antisionnisme: récurrences et
    convergences des discours du rejet", "Revue d'histoire de la Shoah",
    166, mai-août 1999. Centre de documentation juive contemporaine
    1999.

  - Valérie Igounet, "Dossier «Les terroirs de l'extrême-droite»: Un
    négationnisme stratégique",Le Monde diplomatique (Mai 1998).

  - Valérie Igounet, "Histoire du négationnisme en France", Paris, Le
    Seuil, 2000

  - Pierre Bridonneau, "Oui, il faut parler des négationnistes",
    Éditions du Cerf 1997.

  - Yehuda Bauer “A Past that Will Not Go Away.” In The Holocaust and
    History: The Known, the Unknown, the Disputed, and the Reexamined.
    Ed. Michael Berenbaum and Abraham J. Peck. Bloomington: Published in
    association with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum by
    Indiana University Press, 1998, pp. 12–22.

  - Alan L. Berger, “Holocaust Denial: Tempest in a Teapot, or Storm on
    the Horizon?” In Peace, in Deed: Essays in Honor of Harry James
    Cargas. Ed. Zev Garber and Richard Libowitz. Atlanta: Scholars
    Press, 1998, pp. 31–45.

  - Joseph Dan, “Four Ways of Holocaust Denial.” In Bruch und
    Kontinuität: Jüdisches Denken in der europäischen
    Geistesgeschichte. Ed. Eveline Goodman-Thau and Michael Daxner.
    Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 1995, pp. 39–46.

  - Patrick Finney “Ethics, Historical Relativism and Holocaust Denial.”
    Rethinking History 2 (1998), pp. 359–369.

  - Jan Markiewicz, WOJCIECH Gubala, JERZY Labedz, "A Study of the
    Cyanide Compounds Content in the Walls of the Gas Chambers in the
    Former Auschwitz & Birkenau Concentration Camps", Z Zagadnien
    Sqdowych, XXX, 1994.

  - Wayne Klein, “Truth’s Turning: History and the Holocaust.” In
    Postmodernism and the Holocaust. Ed. Alan Milchman and Alan
    Rosenberg. Amsterdam: Editions Rodopi, 1998, pp. 53–83.

  - Jonathan Petropoulos, “Holocaust Denial: A Generational Typology.”
    In Lessons and Legacies III: Memory, Memorialization, and Denial.
    Ed. Peter Hayes. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 1999.

  - Werner Wegner: "Keine Massenvergasungen in Auschwitz? Zur Kritik des
    Leuchter-Gutachtens", in: Die Schatten der Vergangenheit. Impulse
    zur Historisierung der Vergangenheit, hg. v. Uwe Backes, Eckhard
    Jesse und Rainer Zitelmann, Propyläen Verlag, Berlin 1990, S.
    pp. 450–476 (ISBN 3-549-07407-7).

  - Jürgen Zarusky: "Leugnung des Holocaust. Die antisemitische
    Strategie nach Auschwitz. Bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende
    Schriften Aktuell – Amtliches Mitteilungsblatt". Jahrestagung 9./10.
    Nov.1999, Marburg. Auch als Internet-Veröffentlichung (pdf-Dokument)
    erhältlich.

  - Martin Finkenberger/Horst Junginger (Hrsg.): "Im Dienste der Lügen.
    Herbert Grabert (1901–1978) und seine Verlage". Aschaffenburg:
    Alibri-Verl., 2004 (ISBN 3-932710-76-2).

  - Thomas Wandres: "Die Strafbarkeit des Auschwitz-Leugnens". Berlin
    2000 (ISBN 3-428-10055-7).

  -
  -
### By Holocaust deniers

  - [Arthur R. Butz](../Page/Arthur_R._Butz.md "wikilink"), *[The Hoax
    of the Twentieth Century: The Case Against the Presumed
    Extermination of European
    Jewry](../Page/The_Hoax_of_the_Twentieth_Century:_The_Case_Against_the_Presumed_Extermination_of_European_Jewry.md "wikilink")*,
    Newport Beach: Institute for Historical Review, 1994 (ISBN
    0-9679856-9-2).
  - [Faurisson, Robert](../Page/Robert_Faurisson.md "wikilink"), *My
    Life As a Revisionist*, The Journal of Historical Review, volume 9
    no. 1 (Spring 1989), p. 5.
  - [Ernst Gauss](../Page/Ernst_Gauss.md "wikilink") (Ed.), *Dissecting
    the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of 'Truth' and 'Memory*',
    Alabama: Theses & Dissertations Press, 2000 (ISBN 0-9679856-0-9).
  - [Jürgen Graf](../Page/Jürgen_Graf.md "wikilink"), *Der Holocaust auf
    dem Prüfstand*, 1992.
  - [Richard E. Harwood](../Page/Richard_E._Harwood.md "wikilink"),
    ''[Did Six Million Really
    Die?](../Page/Did_Six_Million_Really_Die?.md "wikilink")" Noontide
    Press.
  - [Michael Hoffman II](../Page/Michael_Hoffman_II.md "wikilink"), *The
    Great Holocaust Trial*, (June 1985,2<sup>nd</sup> Edition) (ISBN
    0-939484-22-6).
  - [Fred A. Leuchter](../Page/Fred_A._Leuchter.md "wikilink"), [Robert
    Faurisson](../Page/Robert_Faurisson.md "wikilink"), [Germar
    Rudolf](../Page/Germar_Rudolf.md "wikilink"), *[The Leuchter
    Reports: Critical
    Edition](../Page/The_Leuchter_Reports:_Critical_Edition.md "wikilink")*,
    Chicago, Theses & Dissertations Press, 2005 (ISBN 1-59148-015-9).
  - [Germar Rudolf](../Page/Germar_Rudolf.md "wikilink"), *[The Rudolf
    Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the 'Gas
    Chambers' of
    Auschwitz](../Page/The_Rudolf_Report:_Expert_Report_on_Chemical_and_Technical_Aspects_of_the_'Gas_Chambers'_of_Auschwitz.md "wikilink")*,
    Chicago: Theses & Dissertations Press, 2001 (ISBN 0-9679856-6-8).

</div>

[Category:反犹太主义](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:反犹太主义 "wikilink")
[Category:第三位置](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:第三位置 "wikilink")
[Category:猶太人大屠殺否定論](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:猶太人大屠殺否定論 "wikilink")

1.  Donald L Niewyk, *The Columbia Guide to the Holocaust,* Columbia
    University Press, 2000, p.45: "The Holocaust is commonly defined as
    the murder of more than 5,000,000 Jews by the Germans in World War
    II." Estimates by scholars range from 5.1 million to 6.2 million.
    See the [appropriate section of the Holocaust
    article.](../Page/The_Holocaust#Victims_and_death_toll.md "wikilink")