[WW2-Holocaust-ROstland.PNG](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:WW2-Holocaust-ROstland.PNG "fig:WW2-Holocaust-ROstland.PNG")
**玛丽·特罗斯特内兹灭绝营**（）\[1\]\[2\]，是纳粹德国在[奧斯蘭總督轄區](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/奧斯蘭總督轄區 "wikilink")[白俄罗斯](../Page/白俄罗斯.md "wikilink")[明斯克郊外特罗斯特内兹](../Page/明斯克.md "wikilink")（）建立的集中营。运营于1942年7月到1943年10月间，明斯克最后的一批犹太人被杀害并埋葬于此地。\[3\]\[4\]1944年7月3日，该灭绝营被苏联红军解放。

## 参考资料

## 参考文献

  - Ernst Klee and Willi Dressen, with Volker Riess, *“Gott mit uns”:
    Der deutsche Vernichtungskrieg im Osten, 1939–1945* (Frankfurt am
    Main, S. Fischer, 1989).
  - Shmuel Spector, ‘*Aktion 1005* – Effacing the Murder of Millions’,
    *Holocaust Genocide Studies* (Oxford), vol. 5 (1990), pp. 157–173
    \[on the Nazi attempts to obliterate the evidence of mass murder at
    Maly-Trostinets (the spelling of the place-name adopted by
    Spector)\]
  - Paul Kohl, *Der Krieg der deutschen Wehrmacht und der
    Polizei, 1941–1944: sowjetische Überlebende berichten*, with an
    essay by Wolfram Wette (Frankfurt am Main,
    Fischer-Taschenbuch-Verlag, 1995) \[includes a photo of the camp\].
  - Christian Gerlach, *Kalkulierte Morde: Die deutsche Wirtschafts- und
    Vernichtungspolitik in Weißrußland 1941 bis 1944* (Hamburg,
    Hamburger Edition, 1999).

<!-- end list -->

  - Hans Safrian, ‘Expediting Expropriation and Expulsion: The Impact of
    the “Vienna Model” on Anti-Jewish Policies in Nazi Germany, 1938’,
    *Holocaust Genocide Studies* (Oxford), vol. 14 (2000), pp. 390–414
    \[mentions deportations from Austria to Maly Trostinets (the
    spelling adopted by Safrian)\].
  - \[Ė.G. Ioffe, G.D. Knat’ko, V.D. Selemenev, comps.\], *Kholokost v
    Belarusi, 1941–1944: dokumenty i materially* \[Holocaust in
    Belarus, 1941–1944: Documents and Materials\] (Minsk, NARB
    \[National Archives of the Republic of Belarus\], 2002).
  - \[V.I. Adamushko, *et al.*, comps.\], *Лагерь смерти “Тростенец”:
    Документы и материалы* \[The Trostenets Death Camp: Documents and
    Materials\] (Minsk, NARB \[National Archives of the Republic of
    Belarus\], 2003) \[includes some 25 pages of photographic evidence;
    ISBN 985-6372-30-5\].
  - \[K.I. Kozak, *et al.*, eds.\], *Henatsyd u druhoĭ susvetnaĭ vaĭne:
    Prablemy dasledavanniya u pamiyats akhviyar Trastsiyantsa...*
    (Minsk, Vydavetski tsentr BDU, 2003) \[proceedings of the
    international conference on the subject of the ‘Todeslager
    Trostenez’ (so spelt in the book) held in Minsk between April 25
    and 27, 2002\].
  - S.V. Zhumar’ & R.A. Chernoglazova, comps., *Trostenets* (Minsk,
    GK ‘Poligrafoformlenie’, 2003) \[published under the auspices of
    the Belarus government; includes summaries in English and German;
    Library of Congress call No. D805.5.M358 T76 2003\].
  - Igor’ Kuznyetsov, ‘В поисках правды, или Трагедия Тростенца: до и
    после’ \[In Search of Truth; or, The Tragedy of Trostenets:
    Before and After\], *Belorusskaya delovaya gazeta* \[Belarus
    Business News\] (Minsk), No. 1416 (April 2, 2004) \[makes the
    interesting claim, supported in part by references to published
    sources (e.g., A.I. Zalesskiĭ, *I.V. Stalin i kovarstvo ego
    politicheskikh protivnikov*, 2 vols., Minsk, 1999–2002), that the
    Blagovshchina Forest had previously been the execution ground of
    choice for the local branches of the
    Soviet [NKVD](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/NKVD "wikilink")\].
  - \[Petr Krymsky\], ‘Тростенец – белорусский “Oсвенцим”’ \[Trostenets
    – Belarusian ‘Auschwitz’\], *Rossiĭskie vesti* \[Russian News\]
    (Moscow), No. 16 (1771), May 11–18, 2005 \[seems to take issue with
    the claims made in the preceding article; includes two contemporary
    photographs of Soviet excavations\].
  - \[Z.R. Iofe, *et al.*, eds.\], *Laher smertsi
    Tras’tsyanyets, 1941–1944 hh.: pamiyatsi akhviyar natsyzma ŭ
    Belarusi* \[The Tras’tsyanyets Death Camp, 1941–1944: In Memory of
    the Victims of Nazism in Belarus\] (Minsk, Histarychnaiya
    maĭstėrniya, 2005).
  - [The Invasion of the Soviet Union and the Beginnings of Mass
    Murder](https://archive.is/20121228101815/http://www1.yadvashem.org/yv/en/holocaust/about/04/ussr.asp?WT.mc_id=wiki)
    on the [Yad
    Vashem](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yad_Vashem "wikilink") website
  - [Marking 70 Years to Operation
    Barbarossa](https://web.archive.org/web/20120916093716/http://www1.yadvashem.org/yv/en/holocaust/barbarossa/index.asp?WT.mc_id=wiki)
    on the [Yad
    Vashem](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yad_Vashem "wikilink") website

[Category:纳粹德国二战遗址](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:纳粹德国二战遗址 "wikilink")
[Category:白俄罗斯纳粹集中营](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:白俄罗斯纳粹集中营 "wikilink")
[Category:滅絕營](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:滅絕營 "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.

4.