**琪寶製藥有限公司**，(**Christo Pharmaceuticals
Limited**)，總公司在[香港](../Page/香港.md "wikilink")[荃灣](../Page/荃灣.md "wikilink")[沙咀道](../Page/沙咀道.md "wikilink")[荃運工業中心](../Page/荃運工業中心.md "wikilink")，而[製藥](../Page/製藥.md "wikilink")[工廠在](../Page/工廠.md "wikilink")[廣東省](../Page/廣東省.md "wikilink")[廣州](../Page/廣州.md "wikilink")[南沙經濟技術開發區](../Page/南沙經濟技術開發區.md "wikilink")。

`琪寶製藥香港成立於1973年的香港，客戶包括`[`香港公立醫院`](../Page/香港公立醫院.md "wikilink")`。成品分為`[`片劑`](../Page/片劑.md "wikilink")`、`[`膠囊`](../Page/膠囊.md "wikilink")`、`[`口服液`](../Page/口服液.md "wikilink")`、`[`抗生素`](../Page/抗生素.md "wikilink")`、`[`藥膏等包裝`](../Page/藥膏.md "wikilink")`。`

Christo Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has a history of wholesale and distribution
of pharmaceutical products in Hong Kong since 1973. They have over 300
registered pharmaceutical products, including tablet, capsule, oral
liquid and topical preparations manufactured from varies countries.

Over the last 40 years, tey had developed their sales and marketing team
and also an experienced delivery service teams to provide the most
efficient and high standard service to their clients.

Their Mission

They aim to provide pharmaceutical products and services of consistently
with superior quality at price levels that are fair and competitive.

Their Core Value

The Company is founded on 3 major components which form the basic of
their relationships with their customers and business partners.

Focus – They commit themselves to focus their business and services
within pharmaceutical industry to serve the best to their community.

Continuity – They commit themselves to continually improve the
performance of the company and the quality of their work with trust and
integrity.

Innovative – They commit themselves to understand and meet the changing
requirements and expectations of their customers through teamwork.

The Company Motto:

" QUALITY from our HEARTS, The PROMISE of SUCCESS "

Their Customers

Their customers are from both public and private hospitals, doctors,
dentists, veterinary clinics, key chain and all individuals' pharmacies.
They also have a long term business partner to cover the needs in Macau
area.

Their Quality Services

As a pharmaceutical company for nearly 40 years in Hong Kong, They
highly observe the quality of their products in order to gain trust from
all of their clients. They are willing to try their best to meet the
public needs.

## 外部參考

  - [琪寶藥廠](http://christopharm.cn.alibaba.com/)
  - \[www.christo.com.hk\]

[Category:藥品制劑分銷及制药公司](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:藥品制劑分銷及制药公司 "wikilink")