[CorintoScaviTempioApollo.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:CorintoScaviTempioApollo.jpg "fig:CorintoScaviTempioApollo.jpg")
**科林斯**，为[古希腊](../Page/古希腊.md "wikilink")[城邦](../Page/城邦.md "wikilink")之一，地处今[科林斯地峡地区](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/科林斯地峡 "wikilink")。

[基督教](../Page/基督教.md "wikilink")中，科林斯因[新約聖經](../Page/新約聖經.md "wikilink")中的《[哥林多前書](../Page/哥林多前書.md "wikilink")》和《[哥林多後書](../Page/哥林多後書.md "wikilink")》而得名（哥林多即為科林斯）。

## 文献

  - Results of the American School of Classical Studies Corinth
    Excavations published in Corinth Volumes I to XX, Princeton.
  - Excavation reports and articles in [Hesperia
    (journal)](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hesperia_\(journal\) "wikilink"),
    Princeton.
  - Partial text from Easton's Bible Dictionary, 1897
  - Salmon, J. B. *Wealthy Corinth : a history of the city to 338 BC*.
    Oxford: Clarendon press, 1997.
  - Will, E. *Korinthiaka. Recherches sur l'histoire et la civilisation
    de Corinthe des origines aux guerres médiques*. Paris : de Boccard,
    1955.
  - "Adkins, Lesley and Roy A. Adkins. Handbook to Life in Ancient
    Greece New York: Facts on File. 1997."
  - Alcock, Susan E. and Robin Osborne (ed.s). Classical Archaeology
    Malden: Blackwell Publishing. 2007.
  - "Del Chiaro, Mario A (ed). Corinthiaca: Studies in Honor of Darrell
    A. Amyx. Columbia: University of Missouri Press. 1986."
  - "Grant, Michael. The Rise of the Greeks. New York: Macmillan
    Publishing Company. 1987."
  - "Hammond, A History of Greece. Oxford University Press. 1967.
    "History of Greece, including Corinth from "the early civilizations"
    (6000–850) to "the splitting of the empire and Antipater's
    occupation of Greece" (323–321).
  - "Kagan, Donald. The Fall of the Athenian Empire. New York: Cornell
    University Press. 1987."
  - "Salmon, J.B. Wealthy Corinth: A History of the City to 338 BC.
    Oxford: Clarendon Press. 1984."
  - British Admiralty charts:BA1085, BA1093, BA1600

[Category:希腊城邦](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:希腊城邦 "wikilink")