**组蛋白甲基转移酶**（，简称为**HMT**）是包括[组蛋白-赖氨酸*N*-甲基转移酶与组蛋白](../Page/EZH2.md "wikilink")-精氨酸*N*-甲基转移酶在内的是一大類组蛋白修饰[酶类](../Page/酶.md "wikilink")，它们[催化将一个](../Page/催化.md "wikilink")、两个或三个[甲基转移到](../Page/甲基.md "wikilink")[组蛋白的](../Page/组蛋白.md "wikilink")[赖氨酸或](../Page/赖氨酸.md "wikilink")[精氨酸残基上](../Page/精氨酸.md "wikilink")。被添加上的甲基基团主要位于组蛋白H3和H4的特定赖氨酸或精氨酸上\[1\]。

## 种类

赖氨酸特异性组蛋白甲基转移酶类可被细分为含SET结构域的和不含SET结构域的两类。顾名思义，它们之间的区别在于存不存在SET这样一种结构域。

人类基因所编码的具有组蛋白甲基转移酶活性的蛋白质包括：

  - [ASH1L](../Page/ASH1L.md "wikilink")
  - [DOT1L](../Page/DOT1L.md "wikilink")
  - [EHMT1](../Page/EHMT1.md "wikilink")、[EHMT2](../Page/EHMT2.md "wikilink")、[EZH1](../Page/EZH1.md "wikilink")、[EZH2](../Page/EZH2.md "wikilink")
  - [MLL](../Page/MLL.md "wikilink")、[MLL2](../Page/MLL2.md "wikilink")、[MLL3](../Page/MLL3.md "wikilink")、[MLL4](../Page/MLL4.md "wikilink")、[MLL5](../Page/MLL5.md "wikilink")
  - [NSD1](../Page/NSD1.md "wikilink")
  - [PRDM2](../Page/PRDM2.md "wikilink")
  - [SET](../Page/SET_\(基因\).md "wikilink")、[SETBP1](../Page/SETBP1.md "wikilink")、[SETD1A](../Page/SETD1A.md "wikilink")、[SETD1B](../Page/SETD1B.md "wikilink")、[SETD2](../Page/SETD2.md "wikilink")、[SETD3](../Page/SETD3.md "wikilink")、[SETD4](../Page/SETD4.md "wikilink")、[SETD5](../Page/SETD5.md "wikilink")、[SETD6](../Page/SETD6.md "wikilink")、[SETD7](../Page/SETD7.md "wikilink")、[SETD8](../Page/SETD8.md "wikilink")、[SETD9](../Page/SETD9.md "wikilink")、[SETDB1](../Page/SETDB1.md "wikilink")、[SETDB2](../Page/SETDB2.md "wikilink")
  - [SETMAR](../Page/SETMAR.md "wikilink")、[SMYD1](../Page/SMYD1.md "wikilink")、[SMYD2](../Page/SMYD2.md "wikilink")、[SMYD3](../Page/SMYD3.md "wikilink")、[SMYD4](../Page/SMYD4.md "wikilink")、[SMYD5](../Page/SMYD5.md "wikilink")、[SUV39H1](../Page/SUV39H1.md "wikilink")、[SUV39H2](../Page/SUV39H2.md "wikilink")、[SUV420H1](../Page/SUV420H1.md "wikilink")、[SUV420H2](../Page/SUV420H2.md "wikilink")

### 含SET结构域的赖氨酸特异性组蛋白甲基转移酶

#### 结构

影响甲基转移酶活性的结构包括：SET结构域（包括130个氨基酸）、前SET和后SET结构域。前SET区域包括[半胱氨酸残基](../Page/半胱氨酸.md "wikilink")，可形成三角锌簇，紧密结合锌原子并使结构稳定。SET结构域本身包含一个富含β-股的催化核心，从而形成几个[β折叠区域](../Page/β折叠.md "wikilink")。
一般在前SET结构域发现的β-股将形成的β-折叠，它带有SET结构域的β-股，导致SET结构域结构的细微变化。

These small changes alter the target residue site specificity for
methylation and allow the SET domain methyltransferases to target many
different residues. This interplay between the pre-SET domain and the
catalytic core is critical for enzyme function.\[2\]

#### 催化机制

In order for the reaction to proceed, [S-Adenosyl
methionine](../Page/S-Adenosyl_methionine.md "wikilink") (SAM) and the
lysine residue of the substrate histone tail must first be bound and
properly oriented in the catalytic pocket of the SET domain. Next, a
nearby tyrosine residue deprotonates the ε-amino group of the lysine
residue.\[3\] The lysine chain then makes a nucleophilic attack on the
methyl group on the sulfur atom of the SAM molecule, transferring the
methyl group to the lysine side chain.

[Histone_Methyltransferase,_SAM_and_Lysine_residue.tiff](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Histone_Methyltransferase,_SAM_and_Lysine_residue.tiff "fig:Histone_Methyltransferase,_SAM_and_Lysine_residue.tiff")

### 不含SET结构域的赖氨酸特异性组蛋白甲基转移酶

Instead of SET, non-SET domain-containing histone methyltransferase
utilizes the enzyme Dot1. Unlike the SET domain, which targets the
lysine tail region of the histone, Dot1 methylates a lysine residue in
the globular core of the histone, and is the only enzyme known to do
so.\[4\] A possible homolog of Dot1 was found in archaea which shows the
ability to methylate archaeal histone-like protein in recent studies.

#### 结构

The N terminal of Dot1 contains the active site. A loop serving as the
binding site for SAM links the N-terminal and the C-terminal domains of
the Dot1 catalytic domain. The C-terminal is important for the substrate
specificity and binding of Dot1 because the region carries a positive
charge, allowing for a favorable interaction with the negatively charged
backbone of DNA.\[5\] Due to structural constraints, Dot1 is only able
to methylate histone H3.

### 精氨酸特异性组蛋白甲基转移酶

There are two different types of protein arginine methyltransferases
(PRMTs) and three types of methylation that can occur at arginine
residues on histone tails. The first type of PRMTs (PRMT1, PRMT3,
CARM1⧸PRMT4, and Rmt1⧸Hmt1) produce monomethylarginine and asymmetric
dimethylarginine.\[6\]\[7\]\[8\] The second type (JBP1⧸PRMT5) produces
monomethyl or symmetric dimethylarginine.\[9\] The differences in the
two types of PRMTs arise from restrictions in the arginine binding
pocket.\[10\]

#### 结构

The catalytic domain of PRMTs consists of a SAM binding domain and
substrate binding domain (about 310 amino acids in
total).\[11\]\[12\]\[13\] Each PRMT has a unique N-terminal region and a
catalytic core. The arginine residue and SAM must be correctly oriented
within the binding pocket. SAM is secured inside the pocket by a
hydrophobic interaction between an adenine ring and a phenyl ring of a
phenylalanine.\[14\]

#### 催化机制

A glutamate on a nearby loop interacts with nitrogens on the target
arginine residue. This interaction redistributes the positive charge and
leads to the deprotonation of one nitrogen group,\[15\] which can then
make a nucleophilic attack on the methyl group of SAM. Differences
between the two types of PRMTs determine the next methylation step:
either catalyzing the dimethylation of one nitrogen or allowing the
symmetric methylation of both groups.\[16\] However, in both cases the
proton stripped from the nitrogen is dispersed through a
histidine–aspartate proton relay system and released into the
surrounding matrix.\[17\]

## 在基因调控中的作用

[Histone methylation](../Page/Histone_methylation.md "wikilink") plays
an important role in [epigenetic](../Page/epigenetic.md "wikilink")
[gene regulation](../Page/gene_regulation.md "wikilink"). Methylated
histones can either repress or activate transcription as different
experimental findings suggest. For example, it is likely that the
methylation of lysine 9 on histone H3 (H3K9me3) in the promoter region
of genes prevents excessive expression of these genes and, therefore,
delays cell cycle transition and/or proliferation.\[18\] See
[Histone\#Chromatin
regulation](../Page/Histone#Chromatin_regulation.md "wikilink").

## 疾病的相关性

Abnormal expression or activity of methylation-regulating enzymes has
been noted in some types of human cancers, suggesting associations
between [histone methylation](../Page/histone_methylation.md "wikilink")
and malignant transformation of cells or formation of tumors.\[19\] In
recent years, epigenetic modification of the histone proteins,
especially the methylation of the histone H3, in cancer development has
been an area of emerging research. It is now generally accepted that in
addition to genetic aberrations, cancer can be initiated by epigenetic
changes in which gene expression is altered without genomic
abnormalities. These epigenetic changes include loss or gain of
methylations in both DNA and histone proteins.\[20\]

There is not yet compelling evidence that suggests cancers develop
purely by abnormalities in [histone
methylation](../Page/histone_methylation.md "wikilink") or its signaling
pathways, however they may be a contributing factor. For example,
down-regulation of methylation of lysine 9 on histone 3 (H3K9me3) has
been observed in several types of human cancer (such as colorectal
cancer, ovarian cancer, and lung cancer), which arise from either the
deficiency of H3K9 methyltransferases or elevated activity or expression
of H3K9 demethylases.\[21\]\[22\]\[23\]

## 进一步研究

组蛋白甲基转移酶可以用作癌症的诊断和预后的生物标志物。
另外，关于组蛋白甲基转移酶在细胞的恶性转化，组织的癌发生和肿瘤发生中的功能和调节仍然存在许多问题\[24\]。

## 另见

  -
  - [组蛋白乙酰转移酶（HAT）](../Page/组蛋白乙酰转移酶.md "wikilink")

  - [组蛋白脱乙酰酶（HDAC）](../Page/组蛋白脱乙酰酶.md "wikilink")

  - [组蛋白甲基化](../Page/组蛋白甲基化.md "wikilink")

  - [核小體](../Page/核小體.md "wikilink")

  - [染色质](../Page/染色质.md "wikilink")

## 参考文献

## 深入阅读

  -
  -
## 外部链接

  - [GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Kleefstra
    Syndrome](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bookshelf/br.fcgi?book=gene&part=kleefstra)

  -
  -
{{-}}

[Category:EC_2.1.1](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:EC_2.1.1 "wikilink")
[Category:表觀遺傳學](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:表觀遺傳學 "wikilink")

1.

2.
3.

4.
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

16.
17.

18.
19.

20.
21.
22.

23.

24.