[XRF_12days.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:XRF_12days.jpg "fig:XRF_12days.jpg")

《**聖誕節的十二天**》 ( [英文](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/英文 "wikilink"):**The
Twelve Days of
Christmas**)，是[聖誕頌歌之一](../Page/聖誕頌歌.md "wikilink")，慶祝聖誕節長達12天的所得到的聖誕禮物。歌詞在[1780年英國出現](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/1780年 "wikilink")，而目前旋律為1909年的[弗雷德里克·奧斯汀所曲](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/弗雷德里克·奧斯汀 "wikilink")。

## [英文歌詞](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/英文 "wikilink")

<poem>On the first day of Christmas, my true love sent to me A partridge
in a pear tree.

On the second day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Two turtle
doves, And a partridge in a pear tree.

On the third day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Three French
hens, Two turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree.

On the fourth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Four calling
birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear
tree.

On the fifth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Five golden
rings, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, And a
partridge in a pear tree.

On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Six geese
a-laying, Five golden rings, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two
turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree.

On the seventh day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Seven swans
a-swimming, Six geese a-laying, Five golden rings, Four calling birds,
Three French hens, Two turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree.

On the eighth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Eight maids
a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, Six geese a-laying, Five golden
rings, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, And a
partridge in a pear tree.

On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Nine ladies
dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, Six geese
a-laying, Five golden rings, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two
turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree.

On the tenth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Ten lords
a-leaping, Nine ladies dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans
a-swimming, Six geese a-laying, Five golden rings, Four calling birds,
Three French hens, Two turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree.

On the eleventh day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Eleven pipers
piping, Ten lords a-leaping, Nine ladies dancing, Eight maids a-milking,
Seven swans a-swimming, Six geese a-laying, Five golden rings, Four
calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, And a partridge in a
pear tree.

On the twelfth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Twelve drummers
drumming, Eleven pipers piping, Ten lords a-leaping, Nine ladies
dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, Six geese
a-laying, Five golden rings, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two
turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree\!</poem>

[Category:聖誕歌曲](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:聖誕歌曲 "wikilink")