**荷台達**（[阿拉伯文](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/阿拉伯文 "wikilink")：الحديدة）是[也門的第四大城市及](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/也門 "wikilink")[荷台达省首府](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/荷台达省 "wikilink")，2001年估計人口有425,000人\[1\]。

荷台達位於[紅海旁](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/紅海 "wikilink")，是一個重要[港口](../Page/港口.md "wikilink")，出口[咖啡](../Page/咖啡.md "wikilink")、[棉花](../Page/棉花.md "wikilink")、[海棗等](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/海棗 "wikilink")。19世紀中期[鄂圖曼土耳其帝國得到發展](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/鄂圖曼土耳其帝國 "wikilink")。

[2015年也门内战期间](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/2015年也门内战 "wikilink")，荷台达遭[胡塞武装](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/胡塞武装 "wikilink")[恐怖主义分子严重破坏](../Page/恐怖主义.md "wikilink")。

## History

[434_A_Street_in_Hodaidah.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:434_A_Street_in_Hodaidah.jpg "fig:434_A_Street_in_Hodaidah.jpg")

In the Islamic chronicles, the name Al-Hudaydah was first mentioned in
the year 1454/55 and the city became a popular and important one in the
1520s when the Ottomans took over Yemeni Tihāmah.\[2\] The
[Malay](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malays_\(ethnic_group\) "wikilink")
writer [Abdullah bin Abdul
Kadir](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdullah_bin_Abdul_Kadir "wikilink")
visited Al Hudaydah on his pilgrimage to
[Mecca](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mecca "wikilink") in 1854, and
describes the city in his account of the journey, mentioning that the
custom of chewing [khat](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/khat "wikilink")
was prevalent in the city at this time.\[3\]

In 1914, during the First World War German troops led by Major
[Freiherr](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freiherr "wikilink") Othmar von
Stotzingen established "Stotzingen-Mission", a [wireless
station](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio_station "wikilink"), at Al
Hudaydah, which was used during the [Arab
Revolt](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arab_Revolt "wikilink") to relay
communications from
[Constantinople](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Istanbul "wikilink") to
[German East
Africa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_East_Africa "wikilink") as
well as broadcast
[propaganda](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/propaganda "wikilink") to the
[Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglo-Egyptian_Sudan "wikilink"),
[British
Somaliland](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Somaliland "wikilink")
and
[Abyssinia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethiopian_Empire "wikilink").\[4\]

The city was briefly occupied by Saudi forces during the [Saudi–Yemeni
War of
1934](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi–Yemeni_War_\(1934\) "wikilink").\[5\]\[6\]

After a disastrous fire in January 1961 destroyed much of Al-Hudaydah,
it was rebuilt, particularly the port facilities, with
[Soviet](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soviet_Union "wikilink") aid. A
highway to [Sana'a](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sana'a "wikilink"),
the capital, was completed in 1961. The city was also the site of a
Soviet naval base in the 1970s and 1980s.

Al-Hudaydah has a large number of historical places; particularly in
[Zabid](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zabid "wikilink"), which is
regarded as one of the most important
[Islamic](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam "wikilink") towns in the
world. The city is not large but it has more than one hundred old
mosques. Furthermore, it used to have a university, that was as old as
[al-Azhar](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/al-Azhar "wikilink").

## Economy

Situated on the [Red
Sea](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Sea "wikilink"), it is an
important port, exporting coffee, cotton,
[dates](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoenix_dactylifera "wikilink")
and [hides](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hide_\(skin\) "wikilink"). It
was developed as a seaport in the mid-19th century by the [Ottoman
Turks](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ottoman_Empire "wikilink"). As of
June 2018, three quarters of humanitarian and commercial cargo entering
Yemen arrived via the port of Hudaydah.\[7\] It serves as the entry
point for Yemen's humanitarian aid and around 70% of commercial
imports.\[8\]

As of 1920, the British described Al Hudaydah's port as being a "poor
harbour." With two entrances, it was only able to provide adequate
storage and shelter for small boats, with larger boats and ships having
to dock over two miles away. In 1908, a new pier was built, which had
trouble with depth, leading most imported items to be dumped on the
beach instead of delivered by dock. Coal was often available for
visiting vessels. A new harbour was built 10 miles northwest of the town
by the Ottoman government, with a small train line leading to Al
Hudaydah, and connected to the Sana-Hodeida Railway. A French company
built the rail system, which was halted upon the [Italo-Turkish
War](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italo-Turkish_War "wikilink")
breakout. As of 1909, the port was bringing in less than the port at
[Jeddah](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeddah "wikilink"). That year,
172 [steam ships](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/steam_ships "wikilink")
visited the port. The majority of the goods were from the United
Kingdom, followed by Italy, Russia and Germany. German imports had grown
from 1905 to 1909, with British shipping declining.\[9\] Despite
struggles with a good quality harbour, the town was described as being
the centre of [dhow](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/dhow "wikilink")
building.\[10\]

The city was known for producing striped coarse cotton cloth, woven by
hand. The artisans making the cloth were relocated to Al Hudaydah from
[Zabīd](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zabīd "wikilink") and Beit el-Faki
due to tribal conflict.\[11\] The city was also a centre for
[tanning](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanning_\(leather\) "wikilink")
and [sandal](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/sandal "wikilink")
making.\[12\]

In the late 19th-century, Al Hudaydah was a chief exporter of
[coffee](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/coffee "wikilink"), with that
export business shifting to
[Aden](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aden "wikilink") in the early
20th-century due to more secure routes at Aden. Al Hudaydah had to
transport their goods usually through
[Yemen](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemen "wikilink") and Indian ports
for security reasons, making exportation to the United Kingdom
troublesome. During this time period, the region imported cereal and
rice from India, cotton from
[Manchester](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manchester "wikilink"),
England and the United States, iron and steel from Germany, and general
goods from Italy and Austria. As of 1920, the city was exporting
[fuller's
earth](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/fuller's_earth "wikilink"), hides
and coffee.\[13\] The coffee produced in Al Hudaydah was considered some
of the finest in the region.\[14\]

## Yemeni Civil War

The port of Al Hudaydah plays a crucial role in allowing food to be
imported into the country. This role has been disrupted several times
over the course of the [Yemeni civil
war](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yemeni_Civil_War_\(2015–present\) "wikilink").

In June 2018, pro-Hadi government forces with the backing of the [United
Arab
Emirates](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Arab_Emirates "wikilink")
and [Saudi
Arabia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia "wikilink") entered
the port of Al Hudaydah, in an effort to dislodge Houthi
forces.\[15\]\[16\] Due to the risk of a humanitarian crisis if the port
is besieged, the [United
Nations](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations "wikilink") has
attempted to secure an agreement with the Houthis to place the port
under UN control, but has been unsuccessful until December 13th, 2018 on
which date, there was an announcement by the UN general secretary
[Antonio
Guterres](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonio_Guterres "wikilink")
that the two sides to the civil war have reached an agreement on a
ceasefire.\[17\]\[18\]

## 氣候

Al Hudaydah has a [hot desert
climate](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/hot_desert_climate "wikilink")
([Köppen climate
classification](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Köppen_climate_classification "wikilink"):
*BWh*).

## See also

  - [Hodeida International
    Airport](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hodeida_International_Airport "wikilink")

## References

## 交通

  - [荷台達國際機場](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/荷台達國際機場 "wikilink")

## 參考文獻

[Category:也門城市](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:也門城市 "wikilink")
[Category:紅海](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:紅海 "wikilink")

1.

2.

3.

4.  translating the German account given in the German journal, *Orient
    Rundschau*

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.
12.
13.
14.

15.
16.

17.
18. <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-46555059>