**褐带鹑螺**（学名：**）是[鹑螺科](../Page/鹑螺科.md "wikilink")[鹑螺属的一种](../Page/鹑螺属.md "wikilink")[海螺](../Page/海螺.md "wikilink")\[1\]。鹑螺科舊屬[异足目](../Page/异足目.md "wikilink")\[2\]，今屬[玉黍螺類支序](../Page/玉黍螺類.md "wikilink")。

## 分佈

本物種分佈於[印度太平洋區的](../Page/印度太平洋區.md "wikilink")[熱帶地區](../Page/熱帶.md "wikilink")：從[紅海到](../Page/紅海.md "wikilink")[印度洋](../Page/印度洋.md "wikilink")\[3\]，到[印支半島](../Page/印支半島.md "wikilink")\[4\]的[马来西亚](../Page/马来西亚.md "wikilink")，[印度尼西亚](../Page/印度尼西亚.md "wikilink")、[中国大陆](../Page/中国大陆.md "wikilink")、[台湾](../Page/台湾.md "wikilink")\[5\]、[菲律賓及](../Page/菲律賓.md "wikilink")[澳大利亞的](../Page/澳大利亞.md "wikilink")[昆士蘭州及](../Page/昆士蘭州.md "wikilink")[西澳州](../Page/西澳州.md "wikilink")\[6\]。\[7\]\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]

## 習性

常栖息在潮下带\[11\]，位於熱帶地區海底 10 到 70
公尺深的[沙質地區](../Page/沙質地區.md "wikilink")\[12\]。

## 異名

  - *Buccinum fasciatum* <small>Bruguière, 1789</small>
  - *Buccinum fasciatum* <small>Martini, 1777</small>
  - *Buccinum sulcosum* <small>Born, 1778</small> (original combination)
  - *Cadus diaphanus* <small>Röding, 1798</small>
  - *Cadus fasciatus* <small>Röding, 1798</small>
  - *Dolium (Dolium) fasciatum* <small>(Martini, 1777)</small>
    (Recombination of synonym)
  - *Dolium (Dolium) varicosum* <small>Preston, 1910</small>
  - *Dolium (Eudolium) fasciatum* <small>Martini, 1777</small>
    (Unavailable under Dir. 1.)
  - *Dolium fasciatum* <small>Martini, 1777</small> (Unavailable under
    Direction 1 as published in non-binominal work)
  - *Dolium varicosum* <small>Preston, 1910 </small>
  - *Tonna (Tonna) fasciata* <small>(Martini, 1777)</small>
    (Recombination of synonym)
  - *Tonna (Tonna) varicosa* <small>(Preston, 1910)</small>
    (Recombination of synonym)
  - *Tonna fasciata* <small>(Martini, 1777)</small> (Recombination of
    synonym)
  - † *Tonna niasensis* <small>Wissema, 1947</small>

## 延伸閱讀

  - G. T. Poppe - Philippine Marine Molluscs Vol. 1, p 106
  - Alan G. Hinton - Shells of New Guinea & Central Pacific
  - R. Tucker Abbott - Seashells of South East Asia
  - Cornelis Swennen and Robert Moolenbeek - The Molluscs of the
    southern Gulf of Thailand
  - B. Dharma - Indonesian Shells I
  - Hedley, C. 1919. *A review of the Australian Tun Shells*. Records of
    the Australian Museum 12(11): 329-336, pls 39-44
  - Hinton, A.G. 1978. *Guide to Australian Shells*. Port Moresby :
    Robert Brown & Associates 82 pp.
  - Wilson, B. 1993. *Australian Marine Shells. Prosobranch Gastropods*.
    Kallaroo, Western Australia : Odyssey Publishing Vol. 1 408 pp.
  - Wilson, B. 2002. *A handbook to Australian seashells on seashores
    east to west and north to south. Sydney* : Reed New Holland 185 pp.

## 参考文献

  - Martini, F.H.W. 1777. *Neues sytematisches Conchylien-Cabinet,
    fortgesetzt durch Johann Heironymus Chemnitz*. Nürnberg : G. N.
    Raspe Vol. 3 vi + 1-434, pls 66-121.
  - Born, I. von 1778. *Index rerum naturalium Musei Caesarei
    Vindobonensis, pl. 1, Testacea. - Verzeichniss etc. Illust.*
    Vindobonae. Vienna : J.P. Krauss xlii 458 pp.
  - Röding, P.F. 1798. *Museum Boltenianum sive Catalogus cimeliorum e
    tribus regnis naturae quae olim collegerat Joa*. Hamburg : Trappii
    199 pp.
  - Preston, H.B. 1910. *Description of new shells in the collection of
    the Indian Museum from Burma, Siam and the Bay of Bengal.* Records
    of the Indian Museum 5(5): 34-35

## 外部連結

  -
  -
  -
  - [Bold
    Systems](http://www.boldsystems.org/index.php/Taxbrowser_Taxonpage?taxid=507954)

[Category:鹑螺属](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:鹑螺属 "wikilink")

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.  Ramsay, E. P. [Distribution at Biodiversity Library - Records of the
    Australian
    Museum](http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/page/9091137#page/499/mode/1up)

9.  [Hardy's Internet Guide to Marine
    Gastropods](http://www.gastropods.com/9/Shell_239.shtml)

10. [Sealife
    Base](http://www.sealifebase.org/summary/Tonna-sulcosa.html)

11.
12.