**鉤恙蟎屬**（；(）是[蛛形綱](../Page/蛛形綱.md "wikilink")[蜱蟎亞綱](../Page/蜱蟎亞綱.md "wikilink")[蟎形總目](../Page/蟎形總目.md "wikilink")[恙蟎目](../Page/恙蟎目.md "wikilink")[恙蟎總科](../Page/恙蟎總科.md "wikilink")[恙蟎科之下的一個屬](../Page/恙蟎科.md "wikilink")，可透過叮咬人類而令人類感染[恙蟲病](../Page/恙蟲病.md "wikilink")（[恙蟲東方體感染](../Page/恙蟲東方體.md "wikilink")，亦作[叢林斑疹傷寒](../Page/叢林斑疹傷寒.md "wikilink")）\[1\]。鉤恙蟎屬的幼虫主要宿主是[啮齿类](../Page/啮齿类.md "wikilink")，但有时也能寄生于人类或其他大型哺乳类动物中。

It was originally thought that rodents were the main reservoir for
*O. tsutsugamushi* and that the mites were merely
[vectors](../Page/Vector_\(epidemiology\).md "wikilink") of infection:
that is, the mites only transferred the contagion from the rodents to
humans.\[2\]\[3\] However, it is now known that the mites only feed once
in their lifetime, which means that transmission from rodent to human
via the mites is impossible (for it to have been possible, the mite
would have to feed at least twice, once on the infected rodent and again
on the human who would then be infected).\[4\] Instead, the bacterium
persists in the mites through [transovarial
transmission](../Page/transovarial_transmission.md "wikilink"),\[5\]\[6\]\[7\]
where infected mites transmit the infection to their unborn offspring.
Leptotrombidium mites are therefore both vector and reservoir for
*O. tsutsugamushi*.\[8\] The infection predominantly affects female
mites,\[9\] and does not appear to otherwise harm the mites.

## Life history

The larva is pale orange in colour and feeds on liquified skin tissue,
not blood, as their mouth parts (chelicerae) are too short to reach the
blood vessels.\[10\] They have 3 pairs of legs. The larvae most commonly
target rodents, but will also attach to humans.\[11\] For humans, the
bite is painless, but pain commonly develops only after the larva
detaches from the skin, leaving a red papule that may then develop into
an eschar.\[12\]

The larval stage lasts for 1 to 2 weeks. After feeding, the larvae drop
to the ground and become nymphs. Nymph is brick-red in colour and has 4
pairs of legs. Nymphal stage lasts for 1 to 3 weeks. Nymphs mature into
adults which have 4 pairs of legs, first pair being the largest. They
are harmless to humans. In the post larval stage, they are not parasitic
and feed on plant materials.\[13\] Female lays eggs singly, which hatch
in about a week. Lifespan of adult is about 6 months.

## 物種

  - *[L. akamushi](../Page/Leptotrombidium_akamushi.md "wikilink")* is
    endemic to Japan and is the reservoir for the Kato
    [serotype](../Page/serotype.md "wikilink") of *[Orientia
    tsutsugamushi](../Page/Orientia_tsutsugamushi.md "wikilink")*;\[14\]
  - [纖恙蟎](../Page/纖恙蟎.md "wikilink")（*[L. deliense](../Page/Leptotrombidium_deliense.md "wikilink")*）：是[華南](../Page/華南.md "wikilink")\[15\]及[泰國](../Page/泰國.md "wikilink")\[16\]的主要病毒載體。it
    is also endemic to [Litchfield
    Park](../Page/Litchfield_National_Park.md "wikilink"), in the
    [Northern Territory,
    Australia](../Page/Northern_Territory,_Australia.md "wikilink"),
    where is carries the Litchfield serotype.\[17\]
  - *[L. pallidum](../Page/Leptotrombidium_pallidum.md "wikilink")* is
    endemic to Japan and is the reservoir for Karp and Gilliam
    serotypes;\[18\]\[19\]
  - *[L. scutellare](../Page/Leptotrombidium_scutellare.md "wikilink")*
    is endemic to Japan and is the reservoir for Kawasaki and Kuroki
    serotypes.\[20\]\[21\]

## 參考文獻

[Category:鉤恙蟎屬](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:鉤恙蟎屬 "wikilink")

1.
2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.
9.

10.

11.
12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.
19.

20.
21.