**阿尔伯特·卡尔·路德维希·戈特利夫·甘瑟** （，亦称**Albert Charles Lewis Gotthilf
Günther**，），[德国裔](../Page/德国.md "wikilink")[英国动物学家](../Page/英国.md "wikilink")。

## 生平

甘瑟出生于[士瓦本的](../Page/士瓦本.md "wikilink")[埃斯林根](../Page/埃斯林根.md "wikilink")，早年曾研读[神学和](../Page/神学.md "wikilink")[药剂学](../Page/药剂学.md "wikilink")，1857年就职于[大英博物馆](../Page/大英博物馆.md "wikilink")，专攻[鱼类学](../Page/鱼类学.md "wikilink")，到1870年，他完成了8卷本的《鱼类分类》。1875年，由于他在动物学上的成就，被[英国自然历史博物馆聘为动物馆馆长](../Page/英国自然历史博物馆.md "wikilink")。1865年，甘瑟被选入[皇家学会](../Page/皇家学会.md "wikilink")，并曾在1875年出任副会长。1877年，他成为[林奈学会会员](../Page/林奈学会.md "wikilink")，并在1896年至1900年间担任会长。1914年2月1日在[邱園逝世](../Page/邱園.md "wikilink")。\[1\]\[2\]

## 著作

  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1858) *Handbuch der Medicinischen Zoologie*.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1858) *Catalogue of the
    [Batrachia](../Page/Batrachia.md "wikilink") salientia in the
    collection of the British Museum*. London.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1858) On the geographical distribution of reptiles.
    *Proc Zool Soc London*.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1859-70) *Catalogue of the Fishes in the British
    Museum*, eight volumes.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1863) On new specimens of Snakes in the collection
    of the British Museum. Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist., 1-6.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1863) Third account of new species of snakes in the
    collection of the British Museum. *Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist*.,
    1-17.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1864) Report on a collection of Reptiles and Fishes
    made by Dr. Kirk in the Zambesi and Nyassa regions. Sep. *Proc.
    Zool. Soc. London*, 1-12.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1864) Descriptions of new species of Batrachians
    from West Africa. Sep. *Proc. Zool. Soc. London*, 1-4. Folha
    manuscrita por Bocage no interior com descrição de Cystignathus
    Bocagei de Bolama.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1865) Fourth account of new species of snakes in
    the collection of the British Museum. *Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist*.,
    1-10.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1867) Contribution to the anatomy of Hatteria
    (Rhynchocephalus, Owen). *Sep. Philosophical Transactions*, II:
    1-36.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1867) Descriptions of some new or little-known
    species of Fishes in the collection of the British Museum.
    *Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London*, Jan. 24: 99-104,
    1 estampa.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1868) First account of species of tailless
    Batrachians added to the collection of the British Museum. *Proc.
    Zool. Soc. London*, III: 478-490.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1868) Sixth account of new species of snakes in the
    collection of the British Museum. *Sep. Annals Mag. Nat. Hist*.,
    1-17.
  - GÜNTHER, Alfred (1868) First account of species of Tailless
    Batrachians added to the collection of the British Museum.
    *Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London* (III), June 25:
    478-490. 4 pranchas.
  - GÜNTHER, Alfred (1868) Report on a collection of Fishes made at St.
    Helena by J.C. Meliss. *Proceedings of the Zoological Society of
    London* (II): 225-228.1 estampa.
  - GÜNTHER, Alfred (1868) Descriptions of freshwater Fishes made from
    Surinam and Brazil. *Proceedings of the Zoological Society of
    London* (II): 229-246. 3 estampas.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1872) Seventh account of new species of snakes in
    the collection of the British Museum. *Annals Mag. Nat. Hist*.,
    13-37.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1874) Description of a new European species of
    *Zootoca*. *Annals and Magazine of Natural History*, August.
  - GUNTHER, Albert (1874) Descriptions of some new or imperfectly known
    species of Reptiles from the Camaroon Mountains. *Proceedings of the
    Zoological Society of London*, June 16: 444-445. Plate 56 -
    *Chamaeleon montium* Buckholz, 1874. B - juvenil. Pl. 57:
    *Rhampholeon spectrum* Buckholz e *Bothrolycus ater* sp. nov. . Del.
    G.H. Ford..
  - GUNTHER, Albert (1875) Second report on collection of Indian
    Reptiles obtained by the British Museum. *Proceedings of the
    Zoological Society of London*, March 16 : 224-234. Plates XXX-XXXIV.
    Col. Tenente Beddome no Sul da Índia e Dr. Jerdon no Norte e nos
    Himalaias. Plate 30 - *Calotes grandisquamis* Gunther, 1875 - col.
    Bedomme no sopé do Canoot Ghat; Pl. XXXIV - *Trimeresurus jerdoni*
    sp. nov. - Jerdon, Khassya. G.H. Ford del.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1875) Third report on collections of Indian
    Reptiles obtained by the British Museum. From the *Proceedings of
    the Zoological Society of London*: 567-577. 4 estampas.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1876) Statement regarding dr. Welwitsch's Angola
    Reptiles. *Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes,
    Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa*, V (20): 275-276. Welwitsch.
    Seguem declarações de J.V. Barboza du Bocage.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1876) Notes on a small collection brought by Lieut.
    L. Cameron, from Angola. *Proceedings of the Zoological Society of
    London*, pág. 678. Herpetologia. *Ahaetulla dorsalis* (Bocage).
    Reptilia. Serpentes.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1876) Remarks on some Indian and, more especially,
    Bornean Mammals. Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London,
    III: 424-428. Plate XXXVII - *Viverra megaspila* Blyth, 1863. J.G.
    Keulemans del.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1876) Carta para Bocage, do Zoological Department
    (British Museum), 26 de Junho, a falar de Welwitsch. *Arquivo
    histórico do Museu Bocage*, CE/G-88.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1877) Notice of two large extinct lizards formerly
    inhabiting the Mascarene Islands. *Sep. Linnean Society's Journal -
    Zoology*, vol. 13: 321-328.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1878) - On Reptiles from Midian collected by Major
    Burton. From the *Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London*:
    977-978. 1 estampa.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1879) The extinct reptiles of Rodriguez. *Sep.
    Philosoph. Trans. Roy. Soc*, 168 (extra-vol.), London: 470-472.
  - GUNTHER, Albert (1879) List of the Mammals, Reptiles, and
    Batrachians sent by Mr. Everett from the Philippine Islands.
    *Proceedings of the Zoological Society, London*, January 14: 74-79.
    Plate IV - *Dendrophis philippinensis* Gunther, 1879 - Norte de
    Mindanao . Del. R. Mintern.
  - GUNTHER, Albert (1882) Observations on some rare Reptiles and a
    Batrachian now or lately living in the Society's Menagerie.
    *Transactions of the Zoological Society, London* VI, part VII (1) :
    215-222, pl. 42-46. *Chelys fimbriata* (Schneid.) - a Matamata
    habita as águas estagnada do Brasil e Guiana. Pl. 43-44:
    *Metopoceros cornutus* (Wagler). A imagem representa o segundo
    exemplar chegado aos museus da Europa, o primeiro pertencia ao Museu
    de Paris e tinha vindo de San Domingo. Deste não se conhece a
    proveniência exacta. *Ceratothrys ornata* (Bell). *Tejus rufescens*
    - Mendoza.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1884) Contributions to our Knowledge of *Hydromedusa*,
    a genus of South-American freshwater Turtles. *Annals and Magazine
    of Natural History*, Fifth Series, Volume XIV: 421-425. Plate XIV.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1884) Note on some East-African Antelopes supposed to
    be new. *Annals and Magazine of Natural History*, Fifth Series,
    Volume XIV: 425-429.
  - GÜNTHER, Albert (1885) - Note on a supposed melanotic variety of the
    Leopard, from South Africa. From the *Proceedings of the Zoological
    Society of London*, March 3: 243-245, estampa de *Felis leopardus*.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1888) Contribution to the knowledge of Snakes of
    Tropical Africa. *Annals Mag. Nat. Hist*., (6) 1: 322-335.
    *Ahoetulla bocagei*, sp. nov.. Angola.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1888) Report on a collection of Reptiles and
    Batrachians sent by [Emin Pasha](../Page/Emin_Pasha.md "wikilink")
    from Monbuttu, Upper Congo. *Proc. Zool. Soc. London*, 50-51.
  - GÜNTHER, A. (1895) Notice of Reptiles and Batrachians collected in
    the Eastern Half of Tropical Africa. *Annals Mag. Nat. Hist*., (6)
    15: 523-529.

## 參見

  - [罗伯特·甘瑟](../Page/罗伯特·甘瑟.md "wikilink")，阿尔伯特·甘瑟之子，科学史家

## 参考文献

## 外部連結

[Category:德国鱼类学家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:德国鱼类学家 "wikilink")
[Category:英国鱼类学家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:英国鱼类学家 "wikilink")
[Category:德國動物學家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:德國動物學家 "wikilink")
[Category:英國動物學家](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:英國動物學家 "wikilink")
[Category:蒂賓根大學校友](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:蒂賓根大學校友 "wikilink")
[Category:德國裔英國人](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:德國裔英國人 "wikilink")
[Category:巴登-符騰堡人](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:巴登-符騰堡人 "wikilink")
[Category:英國皇家學會院士](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:英國皇家學會院士 "wikilink")
[Category:倫敦林奈學會會長](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:倫敦林奈學會會長 "wikilink")
[Category:皇家奖章获得者](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:皇家奖章获得者 "wikilink")

1.
2.  Oxford Dictionary of National Biography 2004. Vol 24.