**陈晓红**（）\[1\]，出生于[湖北](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/湖北 "wikilink")[武汉](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/武汉 "wikilink")，美籍华裔经济学家，目前担任[耶鲁大学](../Page/耶鲁大学.md "wikilink")Malcolm
K.
Brachman经济学[教授](../Page/耶鲁大学.md "wikilink")。她是和2017年中国经济学奖获得者，也是第一位来自大陆的[经济计量学会会士](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/經濟計量學會 "wikilink")。\[2\]她的研究领域为计量经济学理论，提出了一套对于具有内生性的半非参数条件矩模型的估计和推断方法。\[3\]

## 部分研究论文

  - Carroll, R. J., Chen, X., & Hu, Y. (2010). Identification and
    estimation of nonlinear models using two samples with nonclassical
    measurement errors. *Journal of Nonparametric Statistics*, *22*(4),
    419-423.
  - Chen, X., & Christensen, T. M. (2015). Optimal Sup-norm Rates and
    Uniform Inference on Nonlinear Functionals of Nonparametric IV
    Regression. *Quantitative Economics*, *9*, 39-84.
  - Chen, X., & Fan, Y. (2006). Estimation of copula-based
    semiparametric time series models. *Journal of Econometrics*,
    *130*(2), 307-335.
  - Chen, X., & Gao, F. (2017). A Reverse Gaussian Correlation
    Inequality by Adding Cones. *Statistics & Probability Letters*,
    *123*, 84-87.
  - Chen, X., Jacho-Chávez, D. T., & Linton, O. (2016). Averaging of an
    Increasing Number of Moment Condition Estimators. *Econometric
    Theory*, *32*, 30-70.
  - Chen, X., Linton, O., & Yi, Y. (2017). Semiparametric Identification
    of the Bid-Ask Spread in Extended Roll Models. *Journal of
    Econometrics*, *200*, 312-325.
  - Chen, X., Linton, O., Schneeberger, S., & Yi, Y. (2019).
    Semiparametric estimation of the bid–ask spread in extended roll
    models. *Journal of Econometrics*, *208*(1), 160-178.
  - Chen, X., & Ludvigson, S. (2009). Land of Addicts? An Empirical
    Investigation of Habit-Based Asset Pricing Behavior. *Journal of
    Applied Econometrics*, *24*, 1057-1093.
  - Chen, X., & Qiu, Y. J. (2016). Methods for Nonparametric and
    Semiparametric Regressions with Endogeneity: A Gentle Guide. *SSRN
    Electronic Journal*, *2016*(8), 259-290.
  - Chen, X., & Santos, A. (2018). Overidentification in Regular Models.
    *Econometrica*, *86*(5), 1771-1817.
  - Chen, X., Shao, Q., Wu, W. B., & Xu, L. (2016). Self-normalized
    Cramér-type moderate deviations under dependence. *The Annals of
    Statistics*, *44*, 1593-1617.
  - Tamer, E., Christensen, T. M., & Chen, X. (2018). Monte Carlo
    confidence sets for identified sets. *Econometrica*, *86*(6),
    1965-2018.\[4\]

## 参考资料

## 外部链接

  - [Xiaohong
    Chen](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=w_wRq7cAAAAJ) at
    [Google Scholar](../Page/Google学术搜索.md "wikilink")
  - \[<https://www.nefchina>.

<!-- end list -->

1.
2.
3.   Department of
    Economics|work=economics.yale.edu|language=en|accessdate=2019-04-02}}
4.