《**陰魔王**》（）是《[探險活寶](../Page/探險活寶.md "wikilink")》[第四季第二十六集的名稱](../Page/探險活寶_\(第四季\).md "wikilink")。在[卡通頻道](../Page/卡通頻道.md "wikilink")2012年10月15日播出。本集以[小男孩阿寶和魔法狗](../Page/小男孩阿寶.md "wikilink")[老皮為主角](../Page/酷狗老皮.md "wikilink")。在這一集裡，阿寶做關於陰魔王的不祥夢，並跟老皮提醒大隻佬。大隻佬就說他們必須蒐集所有皇冠上的寶石，然後放在英雄寶典，就打開一個通往[多元宇宙的門戶](../Page/多元宇宙.md "wikilink")。然而，陰魔王其實偽裝成大隻佬。阿寶和老皮按照指示穿越多元宇宙。

## 劇情

### Background

The episode begins with Finn having a dream about the Lich-possessed
snail using the Enchiridion to attack Billy. Finn then wakes up and
tells Jake about his dream, who—after hearing that the Cosmic Owl
appeared in the dream—believes it is a premonition. The two go visit
Billy, and tell him about the dream. Billy realizes the importance of
the dream, and the three of them set out to stop the Lich. After they
head out, Billy tells them that they need to collect all the magical
gems from all the princesses and Ice King's power crystals that protect
them from the Lich. With only one gem left, Finn finds the Enchiridion
in Billy's knapsack. Billy reveals that the book has magical properties,
and after activating it a certain way, the circle on the front opens up
showing 9 slots where all the gems go in, and it shows a brief diagram
about what would happen if all the slots where filled.

A holographic being named Booko appears and explains that when all the
gems are placed in the book, a portal to the
[multiverse](../Page/multiverse.md "wikilink") will be opened. Billy
claims that he is going to throw the Lich through this portal. Finn and
Jake then set off to get the last gem: Princess Bubblegum's. Finn and
Jake try to take the gem, a scuffle ensues, and the duo manages to get
the gem. Once outside, Finn puts the gem in the final slot. Lights start
to flash out of the stones on book. Then the book starts to shake while
the pieces start to fall off as the Enchiridion turns into a black
block. As Finn is running, Billy tells Finn to hurry. Princess Bubblegum
then runs out telling Finn that Billy is really the Lich.

Just as she says this, one of the Gumball Guardians gets up, detecting
the Lich, and blasts Billy revealing that half of Billy's face is
actually the Lich's. The Lich then asks for the book, but Finn smashes
the book with his knee. However, his action accidentally opens up a
wormhole. The Lich tries to pass through but Jake grabs him. Finn and
Jake then try to stop him from going through, but are inevitably pulled
through. The scene dramatically changes; Finn—in a completely different
art style—is playing his flute with Jake, who appears to be a regular,
non-talking dog. The two are sitting outside a small house with a barn
next to it. His mother calls him in for what she says is "something
important," and the episode ends with Finn assuming he has done
something wrong and he and Jake quickly run inside.

## Production

[WLA_metmuseum_1495_Unicorn_captivity.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:WLA_metmuseum_1495_Unicorn_captivity.jpg "fig:WLA_metmuseum_1495_Unicorn_captivity.jpg")
"The Lich" was written by Tom Herpich and Skyler Page, from a story by
[Patrick McHale](../Page/Patrick_McHale_\(cartoonist\).md "wikilink"),
[Kent Osborne](../Page/Kent_Osborne.md "wikilink"), and [Pendleton
Ward](../Page/Pendleton_Ward.md "wikilink"). It was directed by [Larry
Leichliter](../Page/Larry_Leichliter.md "wikilink").\[1\] The episode
guest stars [Lou Ferrigno](../Page/Lou_Ferrigno.md "wikilink") as the
hero Billy, and [Ron Perlman](../Page/Ron_Perlman.md "wikilink") as the
Lich.\[2\] Ferrigno had previously appeared in the [first
season](../Page/Adventure_Time_\(season_1\).md "wikilink") episode "His
Hero", and Perlman had previously appeared in the [second
season](../Page/Adventure_Time_\(season_2\).md "wikilink") entry "Mortal
Recoil".\[3\]

In the opening scene, Herpich used unicorn symbolism, most notable the
tapestry *The Unicorn is in Captivity and No Longer Dead*, a piece of
the seven-part tapestry *[The Hunt of the
Unicorn](../Page/The_Hunt_of_the_Unicorn.md "wikilink")*, to illustrate
the themes of the episode.\[4\]\[5\] According to then-character
designer Andy Ristaino, the decision was conscientious, but that "as for
the meaning you're just going to have to think about unicorn symbology
and how that relates to a specific character in the episode."\[6\]
Later, in the DVD commentary for the fourth season, Herpich revealed
that the unicorn is representative of the Lich, because they both have
one horn.\[7\] The ending of the episode, featuring Farmworld Finn and a
different animation style, had previously been foreshadowed in the
earlier fourth season episode "King Worm".\[8\]

In the original storyboard for the episode, Billy was supposed to
explain that he would push the Lich through the multiverse portal into
the Crystal Citadel, a prison created so that no one can escape from it.
Billy would further explain that the Citadel housed Finn's actual
father. This rejected storyline would later be revisited at the end of
the [fifth season](../Page/Adventure_Time_\(season_5\).md "wikilink")'s
final episode "Billy's Bucket List", as well as the [season
six](../Page/Adventure_Time_\(season_6\).md "wikilink") premiere "[Wake
Up](../Page/Wake_Up_\(Adventure_Time\).md "wikilink")"/"[Escape from the
Citadel](../Page/Escape_from_the_Citadel.md "wikilink")". In the end of
the episode, the Lich was originally supposed to try and convince Finn
to give him the *Enchiridon* by promising that he could both bring back
his birth parents and give him
[immortality](../Page/immortality.md "wikilink").\[9\] According to
Ward, information regarding Finn's father was cut because it forced too
much information in a short amount of time.\[10\] Had this plot point
stayed in the episode, Finn's father would have been portrayed as a
hero.\[11\]

## Reception

"The Lich" first aired on [Cartoon
Network](../Page/Cartoon_Network.md "wikilink") on October 22, 2012. The
episode was watched by 2.589 million viewers, and scored a 0.5 percent
in the 18–49 demographic [Nielsen household
rating](../Page/Nielsen_rating.md "wikilink"); this means that it was
seen by 0.5 percent of all 18–49 year-olds watching television at the
time of the airing.\[12\] The episode first saw physical release as part
of the complete fourth season DVD in October of 2014.\[13\] It was later
re-released as part of the 2014 '' Finn the Human'' DVD, which included
16 episodes from the series' third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
seasons.\[14\]

Oliver Sava of *[The A.V. Club](../Page/The_A.V._Club.md "wikilink")*
was particularly pleased with the episode, and gave it an "A".\[15\] He
complimented the storyline, as well as the sequence featuring Finn and
Jake stealing jewels, noting that it allowed "for increasingly bizarre
visuals", such as Jake making a purse in his flesh to house the
gems.\[16\] Sava was particularly pleased with the ending, calling it "a
doozy of a cliffhanger" as well as "the kind of ending that calls into
question everything that we’ve seen before."\[17\]

## 參考文獻

[Category:探險活寶](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:探險活寶 "wikilink")
[Category:2012年電視劇集](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:2012年電視劇集 "wikilink")

1.

2.
3.

4.
5.
6.

7.  Herpich, Tom (Storyboard artist). 2014. "The Lich" \[Commentary
    track\], *Adventure Time* Season Four \[DVD\], Los Angeles, CA:
    [Cartoon Network](../Page/Cartoon_Network.md "wikilink").

8.

9.

10. Ward, Pendleton (Series creator). 2014. "The Lich" \[Commentary
    track\], *Adventure Time* Season Four \[DVD\], Los Angeles, CA:
    [Cartoon Network](../Page/Cartoon_Network.md "wikilink").

11.
12.

13.

14.

15.
16.
17.  Adventure Time {{\!}} TV
    Club|url=[http://www.avclub.com/articles/lich,86689/|work=](http://www.avclub.com/articles/lich,86689/%7Cwork=)[The
    A.V. Club](../Page/The_A.V._Club.md "wikilink")|publisher=[The
    Onion](../Page/The_Onion.md "wikilink")|accessdate=April 21,
    2013|date=October 22, 2012}}