**階層式控制系統**（hierarchical control system）也稱為**分層控制系統**，是一種以[分層](../Page/等级制度.md "wikilink")[树狀方式來規劃其設備及控制軟體的](../Page/树_\(数据结构\).md "wikilink")[控制系統](../Page/控制系統.md "wikilink")。若樹中的各節點是用[计算机网络](../Page/计算机网络.md "wikilink")來建立連結，則這個階層控制系統也就是[網絡化控制系統](../Page/網絡化控制系統.md "wikilink")。

## 簡介

A human-built system with complex behavior is often organized as a hierarchy. For example, a  has among its notable features the  of superiors, subordinates, and lines of [組織溝通](../Page/組織溝通.md "wikilink"). Hierarchical control systems are organized similarly to divide the decision making responsibility.

Each element of the hierarchy is a linked [节点 (电信网络)](../Page/节点_\(电信网络\).md "wikilink") in the tree. Commands, tasks and goals to be achieved flow down the tree from superior nodes to subordinate nodes, whereas sensations and command results flow up the tree from subordinate to superior nodes. Nodes may also exchange messages with their siblings. The two distinguishing features of a hierarchical control system are related to its layers.\[1\]

  - Each higher layer of the tree operates with a longer interval of planning and execution time than its immediately lower layer.
  - The lower layers have local tasks, goals, and sensations, and their activities are planned and coordinated by higher layers which do not generally override their decisions. The layers form a  in which the lowest, reactive layers are sub-symbolic. The higher layers, having relaxed time constraints, are capable of reasoning from an abstract world model and performing planning. A  is a good fit for planning in a hierarchical control system.

Besides artificial systems, an animal's control systems are proposed to be organized as a hierarchy. In , which postulates that an organism's behavior is a means of controlling its perceptions, the organism's control systems are suggested to be organized in a hierarchical pattern as their perceptions are constructed so.

## 控制系統架構

[Functional_levels_of_a_Distributed_Control_System.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Functional_levels_of_a_Distributed_Control_System.svg "fig:Functional_levels_of_a_Distributed_Control_System.svg")

The accompanying diagram is a general hierarchical model which shows functional manufacturing levels using computerised control of an industrial control system.

Referring to the diagram;

  - Level 0 contains the field devices such as flow and temperature sensors, and final control elements, such as s
  - Level 1 contains the industrialised Input/Output (I/O) modules, and their associated distributed electronic processors.
  - Level 2 contains the supervisory computers, which collate information from processor nodes on the system, and provide the operator control screens.
  - Level 3 is the production control level, which does not directly control the process, but is concerned with monitoring production and monitoring targets
  - Level 4 is the production scheduling level.

## 應用

### 製造生產：機器人及車輛

Among the  is the hierarchical paradigm in which a robot operates in a top-down fashion, heavy on planning, especially [运动规划](../Page/运动规划.md "wikilink").  has been a research focus at [國家標準技術研究所](../Page/國家標準技術研究所.md "wikilink") since the 1980s. Its Automated Manufacturing Research Facility was used to develop a five layer production control model. In the early 1990s [國防高等研究計劃署](../Page/國防高等研究計劃署.md "wikilink") sponsored research to develop [distributed (i.e. networked) intelligent control systems](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Networked_control_system "wikilink") for applications such as military command and control systems. NIST built on earlier research to develop its [实时控制系统](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/实时控制系统 "wikilink") (RCS) and  which is a generic hierarchical control system that has been used to operate a , a robot [起重机](../Page/起重机.md "wikilink"), and an .

In November 2007, [國防高等研究計劃署](../Page/國防高等研究計劃署.md "wikilink") held the . The winning entry, Tartan Racing\[2\] employed a hierarchical control system, with layered mission [planning](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_planning_and_scheduling "wikilink"), [运动规划](../Page/运动规划.md "wikilink"), behavior generation, perception, world modelling, and [机械电子学](../Page/机械电子学.md "wikilink").\[3\]

### 人工智慧

is a methodology for developing [人工智能](../Page/人工智能.md "wikilink") that is heavily associated with . This architecture is a way of decomposing complicated intelligent behavior into many "simple" behavior modules, which are in turn organized into layers. Each layer implements a particular goal of the  (i.e. system as a whole), and higher layers are increasingly more abstract. Each layer's goal subsumes that of the underlying layers, e.g. the decision to move forward by the eat-food layer takes into account the decision of the lowest obstacle-avoidance layer. Behavior need not be planned by a superior layer, rather behaviors may be triggered by sensory inputs and so are only active under circumstances where they might be appropriate.\[4\]

[强化学习](../Page/强化学习.md "wikilink") has been used to acquire behavior in a hierarchical control system in which each node can learn to improve its behavior with experience.\[5\]

, while at NIST, developed a theory for intelligent system design named the Reference Model Architecture (RMA),\[6\] which is a hierarchical control system inspired by RCS. Albus defines each node to contain these components.

  - *Behavior generation* is responsible for executing tasks received from the superior, parent node. It also plans for, and issues tasks to, the subordinate nodes.
  - *Sensory perception* is responsible for receiving sensations from the subordinate nodes, then grouping, filtering, and otherwise processing them into higher level abstractions that update the local state and which form sensations that are sent to the superior node.
  - *Value judgment* is responsible for evaluating the updated situation and evaluating alternative plans.
  - *World Model* is the local state that provides a [概念模型](../Page/概念模型.md "wikilink") for the controlled system, controlled process, or environment at the [抽象層](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/抽象層 "wikilink") of the subordinate nodes.

At its lowest levels, the RMA can be implemented as a subsumption architecture, in which the world model is mapped directly to the controlled process or real world, avoiding the need for a mathematical abstraction, and in which time-constrained  can be implemented as a [有限状态机](../Page/有限状态机.md "wikilink"). Higher levels of the RMA however, may have sophisticated mathematical world models and behavior implemented by . Planning is required when certain behaviors cannot be triggered by current sensations, but rather by predicted or anticipated sensations, especially those that come about as result of the node's actions.\[7\]

## 相關條目

  - ，分層的

  - ，分層的[组织结构](../Page/组织结构.md "wikilink")

## 參考資料

<references />

## 延伸閱讀

  -
<!-- end list -->

  -
<!-- end list -->

  -
<!-- end list -->

  -
<!-- end list -->

  -
<!-- end list -->

  -
## 外部連結

  - [The RCS (Realtime Control System) Library](http://www.isd.mel.nist.gov/projects/rcslib/)
  - [Texai](http://texai.org) An open source project to create artificial intelligence using an Albus hierarchical control system

[Category:控制工程](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:控制工程 "wikilink") [Category:控制理论](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:控制理论 "wikilink") [Category:人工智能](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:人工智能 "wikilink")

1.  Findeisen, page 9
2.  [1](http://www.darpa.mil/GRANDCHALLENGE/Teams/TartanRacing.asp) Tartan Racing team description
3.  Urmson, C. et al., [Tartan Racing: A Multi-Modal Approach to the DARPA Urban Challenge](http://archive.darpa.mil/grandchallenge/TechPapers/Tartan_Racing.pdf) 2007, page 4
4.  Brooks, R. A. ["Planning is just a way of avoiding figuring out what to do next"](http://www.ece.osu.edu/~fasiha/Brooks_Planning.html), Technical report, MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, 1987
5.  Takahashi, Y., and Asada, M., [Behavior Acquisition by Multi-Layered Reinforcement Learning.](http://citeseer.comp.nus.edu.sg/rd/0%2C465821%2C1%2C0.25%2CDownload/http://citeseer.comp.nus.edu.sg/cache/papers/cs/24389/http:zSzzSzwww.er.ams.eng.osaka-u.ac.jpzSzpaperszSz1999zSzTakahashi99d.pdf/behavior-acquisition-by-multi.pdf) In Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, pages 716-721
6.  Albus, J. S. [A Reference Model Architecture for Intelligent Systems Design.](http://www.isd.mel.nist.gov/documents/albus/Ref_Model_Arch345.pdf) In Antsaklis, P.J., Passino, K.M. (Eds.) (1993) An Introduction to Intelligent and Autonomous Control. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1993, Chapter 2, pp27-56.
7.  Meystel, A. M., Albus, J.S., Intelligent Systems, John Wiley and Sons, New York, 2002, pp 30-31