[Circuit_diagram_–_pictorial_and_schematic.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Circuit_diagram_–_pictorial_and_schematic.png "fig:Circuit_diagram_–_pictorial_and_schematic.png")

[Circuit_elements.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Circuit_elements.svg "fig:Circuit_elements.svg")）\]\]

[4_bit_counter.svg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:4_bit_counter.svg "fig:4_bit_counter.svg")計數器的電路圖（是一種狀態機）\]\]

**電路圖／原理圖**（英文：circuit diagram、electrical diagram、elementary
diagram、electronic
schematic），是一種簡化的電路圖形表示。電路圖使用簡單的圖示組成[電路](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/電路 "wikilink")，電路符號彼此連接，這兩種類型的顯示設備之間的連接，包括電源和訊號的連接。電路圖裡各電子元件的位置，並未反應在完成的實體電路上它們的位置。

不像區塊圖或分佈圖，在電路圖中顯示電路的實際使用的連線。

電路圖被用於電路設計，或是規劃印刷電路板的佈線，或維修電器和電子設備。

## 符號

\<\!-- Circuit diagram symbols have differed from country to country and
have changed over time, but are now to a large extent internationally
standardized. Simple components often had symbols intended to represent
some feature of the physical construction of the device. For example,
the symbol for a resistor shown here dates back to the days when that
component was made from a long piece of wire wrapped in such a manner as
to not produce inductance, which would have made it a
[coil](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/coil "wikilink"). These wirewound
resistors are now used only in high-power applications, smaller
resistors being cast from *carbon composition* (a mixture of
[carbon](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/carbon "wikilink") and
[filler](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/filler "wikilink")) or fabricated
as an insulating tube or chip coated with a metal film. The
internationally standardized symbol for a resistor is therefore now
simplified to an oblong, sometimes with the value in
[ohms](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/ohm "wikilink") written inside,
instead of the zig-zag symbol. A less common symbol is simply a series
of peaks on one side of the line representing the conductor, rather than
back-and-forth as shown here.

### Standards

There are several national and international standards for graphical
symbols in circuit diagrams, in particular:

  - [IEC](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Electrotechnical_Commission "wikilink")
    60617 (also known as [British
    Standard](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Standard "wikilink")
    BS 3939)

<!-- end list -->

  - [ANSI](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_National_Standards_Institute "wikilink")
    standard Y32 (also known as IEEE Std 315)

IEC 60617 originally consisted of