**马特霍恩作战**是[第二次世界大战](../Page/第二次世界大战.md "wikilink")[美国陆军航空兵使用](../Page/美国陆军航空兵.md "wikilink")[B-29超級堡壘轟炸機从中国与印度对](../Page/B-29超級堡壘轟炸機.md "wikilink")[日](../Page/日本.md "wikilink")[战略轰炸项目](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/战略轰炸 "wikilink")。轰炸目标包括日本本土、中国的沦陷区、。名字来源于[阿尔卑斯山的](../Page/阿尔卑斯山.md "wikilink")[馬特洪峰](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/馬特洪峰 "wikilink")，以难以攀登著称。

## 计划

马特霍恩作战计划最初是在1943年1月的[卡薩布蘭卡會議上被酝酿](../Page/卡薩布蘭卡會議.md "wikilink")。美英于1943年8月在魁北克召开会议，决定在中太平洋采取夺占[马里亚纳群岛的作战](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/马里亚纳群岛 "wikilink")。不仅因为[马里亚纳群岛靠近东京](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/马里亚纳群岛 "wikilink")，而且容易补给与防卫。1943年9月，美英得出结论，在中国部署B-29轰炸机必须通过[驼峰航线维持孤立的补给](../Page/驼峰航线.md "wikilink")，这将招致后勤上的极大困难。但[富兰克林·罗斯福总统坚持认为从中国轰炸日本能更快缩短战争进程](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/富兰克林·罗斯福 "wikilink")。1943年底的[开罗会议](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/开罗会议 "wikilink")，罗斯福总统向[蒋介石许诺将在中国部署战略轰炸机](../Page/蔣中正.md "wikilink")。[亨利·阿诺德支持罗斯福总统的决定](../Page/亨利·阿诺德.md "wikilink")，认为中国的轰炸基地是在没有控制[马里亚纳群岛之前的应急办法](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/马里亚纳群岛 "wikilink")。\[1\]

马特霍恩作战计划由Kenneth B. Wolfe准将于1943年10月制定，由实施，代号“夕阳”（Setting
Sun）。该计划是基于[约瑟夫·史迪威的](../Page/约瑟夫·史迪威.md "wikilink")“暮光”（Twilight）计划。B-29的主基地设在印度，在中国开设前进基地并由[驼峰航线的](../Page/驼峰航线.md "wikilink")[C-109运油机](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/C-109运油机 "wikilink")、20架、3架[C-46運輸機组成的支援中队维持补给](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/C-46運輸機 "wikilink")。夕阳计划原定把前进基地设在[广西](../Page/广西壮族自治区.md "wikilink")。但由于[豫湘桂会战失败](../Page/豫湘桂会战.md "wikilink")，最终把B-29基地设在了[成都](../Page/成都市.md "wikilink")。
最初计划由2,000架C-109支援在中国部署10个大队400架B-29，但由于[马里亚纳群岛分担了战略轰炸任务](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/马里亚纳群岛 "wikilink")，最终只把218架B-26轰炸机改装为[C-109运油机](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/C-109运油机 "wikilink")。

阿诺德五星上将于1943年10月12日批准了“夕阳”计划并通过[马歇尔将军提交给总统与](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/乔治·马歇尔 "wikilink")[参谋长联席会议](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/美国参谋长联席会议 "wikilink")。当时这是唯一的轰炸日本的作战计划。罗斯福总统不满该计划于1944年6月1日正式开始实施，而不是他向蒋介石保证的1944年1月1日。但罗斯福批准该计划将实施一整年。

B-29轰炸机的作战半径达到，执行了轰炸日本的90%的任务。

## 战役

Advance [Army Air Forces](../Page/美國陸軍航空軍.md "wikilink") echelons
arrived in India in December 1943 to organize the building of airfields
in India and China. Thousands of Indians labored to construct four
permanent bases in eastern India around
[Kharagpur](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/克勒格布爾 "wikilink"). Meanwhile,
to the northeast, across the Himalayan mountains, about 350,000 Chinese
workers toiled to build four staging bases in western China near
[Chengtu](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chengtu "wikilink"). The
original plan envisioned two combat wings of 150 bombers each, but in
April 1944 the second of those wings had not been sufficiently
organized, equipped, or trained, and XX Bomber Command was reduced to a
single bomb wing, fatally crippling its ability to sustain itself by
airlift. By April 1944, the four B-29 groups of the  were available in
Asia, and eight operating bases had become operational.\[2\]

| Group                            | Assigned to               | Forward deployment                    |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| {{tsl|en|40th Bombardment Group  | 40th Bombardment Group}}  | {{tsl|en|Chakulia Airport             |
| {{tsl|en|444th Bombardment Group | 444th Bombardment Group}} | {{tsl|en|Dudhkundi Airfield           |
| {{tsl|en|462d Bombardment Group  | 462d Bombardment Group}}  | {{tsl|en|Piardoba Airfield            |
| {{tsl|en|468th Bombardment Group | 468th Bombardment Group}} | {{tsl|en|Kalaikunda Air Force Station |

Operating bases\[3\]\[4\]

[Matterhorn-B-29_Crossing_The_Hump_1944.jpg](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Matterhorn-B-29_Crossing_The_Hump_1944.jpg "fig:Matterhorn-B-29_Crossing_The_Hump_1944.jpg")
To avoid the risk that B-29s might be wasted on the battlefields when
they would be much more useful against the Japanese home islands, the
Joint Chiefs approved the establishment in April 1944 of the [Twentieth
Air Force](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/美國第二十航空隊 "wikilink"), setting
the stage for Operation Matterhorn.\[5\]

Acting as executive agent for the Joint Chiefs, Arnold named himself the
Twentieth's commander, and the AAF Air Staff as also the Air Staff of
the Twentieth Air Force. Brig. Gen.  served as chief of staff and *de
facto* commander of the Twentieth after Arnold suffered a heart attack
in May. Centralized control of the Superfortresses from Washington
marked the recognition of the B-29 as a strategic weapon that
transcended theaters and services. That same month, the first
Superfortresses arrived in [India](../Page/印度.md "wikilink"), having
flown across the [Atlantic Ocean](../Page/大西洋.md "wikilink") using the
South Atlantic Transport route from Morrison Field,
[Florida](../Page/佛罗里达州.md "wikilink") to [Natal,
Brazil](../Page/纳塔尔_\(巴西\).md "wikilink") then across to [North
Africa](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/北非 "wikilink"), then to
[Arabia](../Page/阿拉伯半岛.md "wikilink"), and
[Persia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/伊朗 "wikilink"). Accompanying them
was Major General Kenneth B. Wolfe, the designated commander of the XX
Bomber Command, which had been reassigned from the [Second Air
Force](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/美國第二航空隊 "wikilink") as the
operational component of the Twentieth Air Force. Although a brilliant
officer in research and development, with an excellent knowledge of the
B-29, Wolfe had no upper echelon command or operational experience and
was thus an unfortunate choice to command the first B-29 operations. The
58th Bomb Wing headquarters also arrived in
[India](../Page/印度.md "wikilink") during the spring of 1944.\[6\]

A committee of operations analysts who advised the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and the Twentieth Air Force on targets recommended Superfortress attacks
on coke ovens and steel factories in
[Manchuria](../Page/满洲.md "wikilink") and
[Kyūshū](../Page/九州_\(日本\).md "wikilink"). Shutting down these
key industries would severely cripple the enemy’s war effort. Also on
the target list were important enemy harbor facilities and aircraft
factories. Wolfe launched the first B–29 Superfortress combat mission on
June 5, 1944, against Japanese [railroad](../Page/泰国铁路运输.md "wikilink")
facilities at , [Thailand](../Page/第二次世界大战期间的泰国.md "wikilink"), about
away. Of the 98 bombers that took off from India, 77 hit their targets,
dropping 368 tons of bombs. Encouraged by the results, XX Bomber Command
prepared for the first raids against Japan.\[7\]

Ten days later, sixty-eight Superfortresses took off at night from
staging bases at Chengtu to bomb the Imperial Iron and Steel Works at
[Yawata](../Page/八幡市.md "wikilink") on
[Kyūshū](../Page/九州_\(日本\).md "wikilink"), more than  away.
The  – the first raid on the Japanese home islands since the [Doolittle
raid](../Page/空袭东京.md "wikilink") of April 1942 – marked the beginning
of the strategic bombardment campaign against Japan. Like the Doolittle
attack, it achieved little physical destruction. Only forty-seven of the
sixty-eight B–29s airborne hit the target area; four aborted with
mechanical problems, four crashed, six jettisoned their bombs because of
mechanical difficulties, and others bombed secondary targets or targets
of opportunity. Only one B–29 was lost to enemy aircraft over the
target,\[8\]\[9\] while another was strafed and destroyed by Japanese
aircraft after making an emergency landing at Neihsiang.\[10\]

The second full-scale strike did not occur until July 7, 1944. By then,
Arnold, impatient with Wolfe’s progress, had replaced him temporarily
with Brigadier General LaVern G. Saunders, until Major General [Curtis
E. LeMay](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curtis_LeMay "wikilink") could
arrive from Europe to assume permanent command. Unfortunately, the
three-week delay between the first and second missions reflected serious
problems that prevented a sustained strategic bombing campaign from
China against Japan. Each B–29 mission consumed tremendous quantities of
fuel and bombs, which had to be shuttled from India to the China bases
over the Himalayas, the world’s highest mountain range. For every
Superfortress combat mission, the command flew an average of six B–29
round-trip cargo missions over the Hump, using both tactical aircraft
and B-29s modified as fuel tankers. When it was immediately apparent
that the operation would never be self-sustaining, the  was called upon
to support Matterhorn with allocations on its Hump airlift, taken from
the allocations to the [Fourteenth Air
Force](../Page/美國第十四航空隊.md "wikilink") already in China.
In September 1944 70 C-109s were added to the effort, flown by surplus
B-29 crews, but XX Bomber Command, fearful of diversions to other
agencies, resisted all attempts to have them operated by ATC. Its
transport procedures contradicted those of ATC, however, limiting its
efficiency, and beginning in November 1944 its B-29s were withdrawn from
the airlift and the C-109s transferred to ATC. With plans already
developed to shut down B-29 forward basing in China at the end of
January 1945, ATC took over the logistical supply of the bases in China,
too late to provide the volume required to stockpile materiel. In the
end, 42,000 tons of cargo were delivered over the Hump to XX Bomber
Command between April 1944 and January 1945, nearly two-thirds of it by
ATC.\[11\]

Range presented another problem. [Tokyo](../Page/東京都.md "wikilink"), in
eastern [Honshū](../Page/本州.md "wikilink"), lay more than  from the
Chinese staging bases, out of reach of the B–29s. Kyūshū, in
southwestern Japan, was the only one of the major home islands within
the  combat radius of the Superfortress.\[12\] Targets in South East
Asia also involved lengthy flights, with the  raid which was conducted
against [Palembang](../Page/巨港.md "wikilink") on 10/11 August requiring
a round trip of .

The very heavy bomber still suffered mechanical problems that grounded
some aircraft and forced others to turn back before dropping their
bombs. Even those B–29s that reached the target area often had
difficulty in hitting the objective, partly because of extensive cloud
cover or high winds. Larger formations could have helped compensate for
inaccurate bombing, but Saunders did not have enough B–29s to dispatch
large formations. Also, the Twentieth Air Force periodically diverted
the Superfortresses from strategic targets to support theater commanders
in Southeast Asia and the southwestern Pacific. For these reasons, the
XX Bomber Command and the B–29s largely failed to fulfill their
strategic promise.

On August 20, LeMay arrived to breathe new energy into the XX Bomber
Command. The former [Eighth Air Force](../Page/美國第八航空隊.md "wikilink")
group and wing commander had achieved remarkable success with strategic
bombing operations in Europe, testing new concepts such as stagger
formations, the combat box, and straight-and-level bombing runs. The
youngest two-star general in the Army Air Forces had also revised
tactics, tightened and expanded formations, and enhanced training for
greater bombing precision. He inaugurated a lead-crew training school so
that formations could learn to drop as a unit on cue from the aircraft
designated as the lead ship.

During his first two months at XX Bomber Command, LeMay had little more
success than Wolfe or Saunders. The command continued to average only
about one sortie a month per aircraft against Japan’s home islands. When
[Douglas MacArthur](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟 "wikilink")
invaded the [Philippines](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/菲律宾 "wikilink")
in October 1944, LeMay diverted his B-29s from bombing Japanese steel
facilities to striking enemy aircraft factories and bases in
[Formosa](../Page/中華民國.md "wikilink"),
[Kyūshū](../Page/九州_\(日本\).md "wikilink"), and
[Manchuria](../Page/满洲.md "wikilink").\[13\]

Meanwhile, LeMay gained the support of Communist leader [Mao
Zedong](../Page/毛泽东.md "wikilink"), who controlled parts of northern
China. Willing to help against a common enemy, Mao agreed to assist
downed American airmen and to locate in northern China a weather station
that would provide better forecasts for the XX Bomber Command’s raids on
the Japanese in Manchuria and Kyūshū. Hoping to gain American
recognition of his own regime, Mao suggested that the Americans set up
B–29 bases in northern China like those in Chiang Kai-shek’s area of
control in southern China. LeMay declined, however, because he found it
difficult enough to supply the airfields at Chengtu.\[14\]
[B-29_targets_from_India.png](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:B-29_targets_from_India.png "fig:B-29_targets_from_India.png")

### *Ichi-Go* and the first "fire raid"

The former European theater bomber commander continued to experiment
with new technologies and tactics and soon imported to China the
incendiary weapons being used by the British against Germany. In late
1944, a Japanese offensive (codenamed [Operation
Ichi-Go](../Page/豫湘桂会战.md "wikilink")) in China probed toward
the B–29 and Air Transport Command bases around Chengdu and
[Kunming](../Page/昆明市.md "wikilink"). To slow the enemy advance, Maj.
Gen. Claire L. Chennault of the Fourteenth Air Force asked for raids on
Japanese supplies at [Hankow](../Page/汉口.md "wikilink"), and the Joint
Chiefs directed LeMay to hit the city with firebombs. On December 18,
LeMay launched the fire raid, sending eighty-four B–29s in at medium
altitude with five hundred tons of incendiary bombs. The attack left
Hankow burning for three days, proving the effectiveness of incendiary
weapons against the predominantly wooden architecture of the Far
East.\[15\]

By late 1944, American bombers were raiding Japan from the recently
captured Marianas, making operations from the vulnerable and
logistically impractical China bases unnecessary. In January 1945, the
XX Bomber Command abandoned its bases in China and concentrated 58th
Bomb Wing resources in India. The transfer signaled the end of
Matterhorn. During the same month, LeMay moved to the Marianas, leaving
command of the XX Bomber Command in India to Brig. Gen. Roger M. Ramey.
Between January and March, Ramey’s B–29s assisted
[Mountbatten](../Page/第一代緬甸的蒙巴頓伯爵路易斯·蒙巴頓.md "wikilink") in the
[South-East Asian theatre](../Page/第二次世界大战东南亚战区.md "wikilink"),
supporting British and Indian ground forces in Burma by targeting rail
and port facilities in Indochina, Thailand, and Burma. More distant
targets included refineries and airfields in
[Singapore](../Page/轰炸新加坡_\(1944年－1945年\).md "wikilink"),
Malaya, as well as  and other locations in the Netherlands East Indies.
The 58th, the only operational wing of the XX Bomber Command, remained
in India until the end of March 1945, when it moved to the Marianas to
join the .\[16\]

XX Bomber Command stopped being an operational command at the end of
March 1945 when the 58th Bomb Wing moved from India to the Marianas and
control of the wing passed to the XXI Bomber Command.\[17\]

## Assessment

The American Bomber Summary Survey states that "Approximately 800 tons
of bombs were dropped by China-based B-29s on Japanese home island
targets from June 1944 to January 1945. These raids were of insufficient
weight and accuracy to produce significant results."\[18\] XX Bomber
Command had failed to achieve the strategic objectives that the planners
had intended for Operation Matterhorn, largely because of logistical
problems, the bomber’s mechanical difficulties, the vulnerability of
Chinese staging bases (see [Operation
Ichi-Go](../Page/豫湘桂会战.md "wikilink")), and the extreme range
required to reach key Japanese cities. Although the B–29s achieved some
success when diverted to support Chiang Kai-shek’s forces in China,
MacArthur’s offensives in the Philippines, and Mountbatten’s efforts in
the [Burma Campaign](../Page/緬甸戰役.md "wikilink"), they generally
accomplished little more than the [B-17 Flying
Fortresses](../Page/B-17轟炸機.md "wikilink") and [B-24
Liberators](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/B-24轟炸機 "wikilink") assigned
to the [Fourteenth](../Page/美國第十四航空隊.md "wikilink"),
[Fifth](../Page/美国第五航空队.md "wikilink"),
[Thirteenth](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/美國第十三航空隊 "wikilink"), and
[Tenth](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/美國第十航空隊 "wikilink") Air
Forces.\[19\]

Chennault considered the Twentieth Air Force a liability and thought
that its supplies of fuel and bombs could have been more profitably used
by his Fourteenth Air Force. The XX Bomber Command consumed almost 15
percent of the Hump  tonnage per month during Matterhorn. Lt. Gen.
[Albert C. Wedemeyer](../Page/阿尔伯特·魏德迈.md "wikilink"), who replaced Lt.
Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell as American senior commander in the [China
theater](../Page/中缅印战区.md "wikilink"), agreed with Chennault. The two
were happy to see the B–29s leave China and India. Yet, despite those
objections, Matterhorn did benefit the Allied effort. Using the China
bases bolstered Chinese morale and, more important, it allowed the
strategic bombing of Japan to begin six months before bases were
available in the Marianas. The Matterhorn raids against the Japanese
home islands also demonstrated the B–29’s effectiveness against Japanese
fighters and anti-aircraft artillery. Operations from the Marianas would
profit from the streamlined organization and improved tactics developed
on the Asian mainland.\[20\]

## 指挥架构

General Arnold retained personal command of the Twentieth Air Force – to
avoid diversion of assets from the B-29 effort against Japan,
particularly by Admiral [Nimitz](../Page/切斯特·威廉·尼米兹.md "wikilink"), who
was given command authority over all efforts in the Central Pacific –
with Brigadier General  as chief of staff (and later commander of
).\[21\] Tentative plans called for an operational force of 48 B-29
groups, numbering between 1,000 and 1,500 B-29s, to be deployed in four
bomber commands (the XX BC of 4 groups in India-China, the XXI BC of 16
groups in the Marianas, the XXII BC of 24 groups in the Philippines and
Okinawa, and the XXIII BC of 4 groups in the Aleutians).

Original plans for XX Bomber Command to employ two combat wings in China
(the 58th and 73rd Combat Bomb Wings) were changed on 2 March 1944 when
limited numbers of operational B-29s resulted in only the 58th CBW
assigned. There, after poor bombing results, and as developing
operations deemed the original complex organization unnecessary, it was
deemed a redundant level of command and its four groups moved to Guam in
April 1945 as part of XXI Bomber Command.

The bases in China were part of the [China Burma India Theater of World
War II](../Page/中缅印战区.md "wikilink") for administrative purposes. The
commander of the XX Bomber Command had no control over stations, bases,
units, and personnel not directly assigned to him, and none over
shipping and other logistic support essential to the operation. However
the Commander-in-Chief of the XX Bomber Command reported directly to the
JCS in Washington and was not under [SEAC](../Page/東南亞司令部.md "wikilink")
operational control like the rest of the personnel in the CBI.

The British planning to deploy their new  (of about 22 squadrons) to the
Far East for final operations against the Japanese, proposed that
Twentieth Air Force be controlled by the Combined Chiefs, as had the air
forces in Europe, but when the Americans rejected the proposal (because
the forces involved were overwhelmingly American), the British dropped
the issue.

### Operational Command Structure

General [Henry "Hap" Arnold](../Page/亨利·阿诺德.md "wikilink") named himself
the commander of the Twentieth Air Force. Brigadier General  became
Twentieth Air Force chief of staff. The subordinate commanders of XX
Bomber Command were:

  - Major General [Kenneth B.
    Wolfe](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_B._Wolfe "wikilink")
  - Brigadier General [LaVern G.
    Saunders](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaVern_G._Saunders "wikilink")
  - Major General [Curtis E. LeMay](../Page/柯蒂斯·李梅.md "wikilink")
  - Brigadier General [Roger M.
    Ramey](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_M._Ramey "wikilink")

## 参考文献

  -
  - Maurer, Robert(1983). *Air Force Combat Units Of World War II*,
    Maxwell AFB, Alabama: Office of Air Force History.

<!-- end list -->

  - Attribution

<!-- end list -->

  - ([backup site](http://usaaf.net/ww2/hittinghome/index.htm))

      - [Chapter 4: The Superfortress Takes to the
        Skies](http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/lps51153/airforcehistory/usaaf/ww2/hittinghome/hittinghomepg4.htm)
      - [Chapter 5: Over the Hump to
        Matterhorn](http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/lps51153/airforcehistory/usaaf/ww2/hittinghome/hittinghomepg5.htm)

## 进一步阅读

  -   - [Chapter
        XIII](http://www.history.army.mil/books/wwii/WCP/ChapterXIII.htm#p252)
      - [Appendix
        B](http://www.history.army.mil/books/wwii/WCP/enchApxB4.html)

## 外部链接

  - <https://web.archive.org/web/20050311211933/http://www.usaaf.net/ww2/hittinghome/hittinghomepg5.htm>
  - <http://historynet.com/ahi/bloperationmatterhorn/index.html>

[Category:1944年太平洋战场战役](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1944年太平洋战场战役 "wikilink")

1.  Haulman, Chapter *[The Superfortress Takes to the
    Skies](http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/lps51153/airforcehistory/usaaf/ww2/hittinghome/hittinghomepg4.htm)*
    p.4

2.
3.  Maurer (1983),

4.  Crosby, Jim. [Location of China Bomber
    bases, 1944–45](http://www.intergate.com/~sandcrab/China_Bases.htm)
    , [website created by David Wilhelm in memory of Sgt. Daniel L.
    Wilhelm, USAAF](http://www.intergate.com/~sandcrab/) , Retrieved 13
    March 2010

5.  Haulman, Chapter *[Over the Hump to
    Matterhorn](http://permanent.access.gpo.gov/lps51153/airforcehistory/usaaf/ww2/hittinghome/hittinghomepg5.htm)*
    p.5

6.
7.
8.
9.

10.

11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18. [United States](../Page/美国.md "wikilink") [Strategic bombing survey
    summary report (Pacific
    War)](http://www.anesi.com/ussbs01.htm#taaatjhi), Washington D.C. 1
    July 1946. Page 16.

19.
20.
21.